Ch4 Psychopomp
*Flies up to Boston, drives up to Maine
  -instead of human flight, have bird migration metaphor for her travels
  -AI pathways connecting during her sleep
  -psychopomp theme, orange sunset drive into black forests
  -thinking back to her grandfather’s house in Maine, growing up, stone laboratory and secret passageways, macabre art
--noticing a truck is tailing her, one of those supply trucks, she pulls over to gas station quietly frantic. She suspects her AI chip could be GPS-enabled...and notices that her chip is equilibria lizing her emotions, she ‘senses’ her real feeling of panic beneath the modulated emotional response of the chip
--run out of gas, pull into gas station but they haven’t had gas in years just snacks, Charon offers ride to nearby town as sun sets. Persephone accepts and jumps in.

Strong southwest winds lifted the plane into the air. Persephone had settled into her window seat next to a hooded teenager. Persephone settled into her seat as the hooded teenager beside her plopped back down and crossed his arms, bobbing his head to death metal.

 Tonight, migration across the southern United States would ignite radars as millions of birds took to the sky following ancient flightways to ancestral homes. Persephone looked out the window at the gathering darkness as the plane itself prepped for takeoff down the runway. Its engine’s hum enshrouding the cabin and offering respite from the individuating cacophony of other passengers. The shimmering shells of houses and towers floated down to a purple sea, retreated to infinity. Persephone couched her pounding head against the glass and willed herself to sleep.

-------------
The sinking of Apollo’s golden chariot sank into the west signalled to the anxious crowds to ascend. The winds bore them aloft into time immemorial. A single moment of eternity as they replayed the drama of a millennia of evolution, an ounce of difference between they and their parents and their parent’s parents echoing back and back into the future. Favorable winds. They were the favored ones, feathered. In this cycle of regeneration, they bore the spring along with them north over the darkened tumultuous sea and the inky black forests when giant behemoths and groundsloths slouched towards an older Jerusalem. They flew up and called out. Hearing their thousand cries echoed back to them by the others joined in their flight. They formed a greater whole in the night, beyond sight before the frenzied light would furnish them with a territorial aggression. Dionysiac impulses drove, whipped into a frenzied rush. Rushing onwards into the window of dark allowed them. Back to their nests once hatched and fed to renew the cycle, to bring life out of life and dance on the mountainous ravine or the shaded glen.

Mile-high glaciers had retreated, melted into time and the great boreal forests grew where they once stood. An immobility, triumphant flags of life planted. Yet these same impulsions remained, out of time and space they replicated and maintained their steadfast grasp over the multitudinous forms that swam, crawled, leapt, flew, and paced the globe. 

But still the birds flew on, pushed by winds and pulled by libidinal forces beyond our comprehension. An anxiety streaming forth out each muscle and feather, transforming their bodies into a prayer for the mystery of life. And this force would proliferate into the next generation, to renew itself and filter down through species and aeons.
Humanity too feels this same drawing-on, onwards to the black unknown whenceforth its calling comes. Even now we prepare a mission to outer worlds and inner spaces, listening for the call ignorantly heeded.
And she flew among them now. Returning once more to an ancestral homeland under stranger stars closer than ever.

---------------

Boston thought of itself as a bastion. A bastion of technology, of progress, and especially of the future. In the mid 21st Century it styled itself as the quintessential smart city incorporating as many of the new city planning technologies as it could. A major investment in public transportation and the latest philosophies of mixed-use housing led to a minor economic boom as it consolidated the technology sector into its sphere. Everything was now measured and quantized, applied to systems theory and fed through multiple artificial intelligence systems to better manage the bustling metropolis.

Despite these developments, and perhaps because of them, the residents of the city did feel as if inside a bastion. From without, the city was fighting a neverending war against the ocean as the north Atlantic became the quickest growing segment of the world’s oceans. From within, unmitigated wealth inequality continued despite the technological wonders brought to bear on managing the daily life of the average citizen. And the turmoil from this inequality was prone to boiling over every summer as the sea roiled from without.

Persephone, running ragged, approached the service desk at the airport rental car service off the main hub. Heaving her extra large hiking backpack to the floor under the counter she adjusted her black hair to see. The equally unenthused and bewildered-looking worker behind the desk slowly scooted her chair over to her and they began the laborious back and forth of renting a rental car at seven in the morning. She input her choices after quick, perfunctory questions.

“Let’s see a mid-size car for how long?”
“For a day or...two. Let’s say two days.”
“For 2 days..”repeated the clerk, typing slowly on an old keyboard while sipping her iced Dunkin.
“And where are you headed?”
“X Maine.”
“X Maine..hmm never heard of it. Is that near Portland?”
“No its way up there. Practically Canada.”
“Huh, I didn’t know people were still living up there.” she said, genuinely surprised. “Yea, I’m from around that area and I thought most people left for jobs. Especially after the government shut the power down for most of the backcountry. My parents are still pissed.”
“Yea, my grandfather used to have a place up there. But now I have no idea what has happened to it, I might drive by on my way up. I haven’t been there in years.”

“Must’ve been nice. My parents are die-hard Mainers and they refuse to budge. You should see my children up there with no internet.” The clerk sucked the bottom of her plastic cup and threw it in the trash.
“OK here you go. A mid-size yadayada that should be good for the mud season up there.” she handed the keys over after Persephone input her digital signature. “Be sure to get some lobstah up there if you can find it.”

“Thanks. I’ll try.” Persephone turned with her unwieldly backpack swaying her to one side as she countered the momentum of her turn. 
“Hey lady! You forgot your backpack.” Persephone returned for her second backpack and slung it over her other shoulder. “Thank you” she said as Harriet nodded the back of her head at the television set in her office. Her boots clomped out to the parking garage.


Persephone, after debating the rental car service, stepped out into the garage and found her car.
She sighed a mixture of relief and stoicism as she started the car. A five hour drive lay ahead of her.
Driving out into the April day she saw a shining metropolis. Mostly empty but shining. She turned onto the highway, unable to drive through the cloistered heart of her favorite city, and headed north.

Memory: driving after Incident

It was a 4-hour drive that she was dreading, not because of the distance nor the because she minded driving. Though morally opposed to it, he didn’t mind burning the fossil fuel if the reason was good enough. His wife convinced him that his mental health was a good enough reason, begged him to leave, to get treatment. He obliged. No, it wasn’t the gas or the distance, it was the time alone with her thoughts. Despite knowing that it was bad for her, she indulged her downward spirals and to the contrary of her therapist’s advice, chose to fully engage them. Always she had the feeling that if she could only get to the abyssal bottom of it all then she could be freed in a nirvana sense. A sense that, perhaps, if she could see it all from the highest vantagepoint, all of history, and human endeavor, and biological life spawning from the beginning of time, and the evolution of flowering plants and walking apes, and whipped horses and burning forests, that she could finally resolve the meaninglessness of it all and come to rest atop the mountaintop sound in the lofty air.

But first, she had to escape this city: Boston. Every year it was sinking further into the sea. Or rather, the sea was coming up to reclaim its territory that the colonizers had taken and dumped land to build their commerce upon. The Big Dig was at escalated risk. Crossing the Charles, she looked back at the golden dome melting in the midday sun. The city upon a hill.

Looking back on that dome sparked a memory of when she and Mike were last here in Boston. Nearly a year after their daughter’s accident.

-----------------
“Do you even want to try again? I mean what kind of future would they have? You saw it back there. The city has gone to shit. Subways barely run, half the streets are flooded. Blackouts. It’s just a mess”
-Mike had stared ahead, pretending to focus on the nonexistent traffic.
“Babe, I think we just have to give it some time, see how we establish ourselves in our new place...see how your surgery…”, he had struggled to say the word ‘helps’, “...works.” He decided on.

“I can’t  stop thinking about our honeymoon and the sea and it was so beautiful and warm there. Just us together laying in bed all day, the beach all night.” 
Dilapidated three-stories flashed past the window, decks decaying off them, Patriots flags flying.
“And I keep remembering the coral...just nothing. There was nothing left, you know. A tiny fraction of what was there, a ghost town. There will be nothing when...would be nothing if she were still here…” 

Mike put his hand on her thigh then. He tried to find words of comfort but he couldn’t find any that salve this wound of hers. And he felt that she blamed him, and he was burdened by that guilt. Why did he argue with her that fresh spring day?

“Please, you need your rest honey. Your brain is working overtime trying to get that thing in your head set up.” 
“They are working on reseeding the reefs with resistant corals. -He added in vain.
He silently drove on, over the shining Mystic escaping the orbit of Boston.

"Do you think we’ll see a Golden-winged this season?" Mike resurrected, spoke. She stood and listened a moment longer, trying to capture the small contact notes between birds lost now in the cacophony of driverless tractor trailers blasting down the highway.
Dejected* he returned to the driver seat.
"I hope so*"

Persephone now had crossed the over the state boundary, hopped New Hampshire, and pulled onwards to Maine. Ghost town, that’s what it must feel like for these birds too. Not that any individual would remember really but perhaps deep in their genetics that could sense something awry without the possibility for rectification. The woods are irrecoverably altered now, starting with the great towering Chestnuts extinguished by the blight, on to the rapid development and destruction of mountaintops, to the Emerald AshBorer eradicating all mature Ashes, to the pine borer, to the Hemlock Wooly Adelgid, to the Spotted Lanternfly which is eating the entire eastern seaboard. The loss of their habitat and the plain loss of their abundance. It must be a lonely wood where only their own echoes call back to them. WHen they get the chance to be away from mankind’s disturbance which is increasingly rare.

Why am I doing this? Driving to the middle of nowhere. She was comforted at least to come back to her grandfather’s where she spent so many of her formative years. She remembered his house as a sanctuary in the woods. A mystical cabin on the lake, where magic was never far from the real. In the summer time she would play along the shore and catch bugs. Basking in the sun on his little dilapidated dock and paddling her feet in the warm water. In the winter she liked to hide in his study and look through his nature field guides, 
---> slowly wade into the creepy esoterica in the study, the Inferno art, troll dolls and Munch’s The Scream. Macabre botany laboratory with little crawlspaces that connected to other rooms that they called secret passages.

Grandfather House Memories, Rest Stop, → Deep Woods, Get lost? Arrival?
Driving onward, she noticed that she hadn’t really noticed that she was indeed driving. Rhythmic hum of rubber on road washed into a trance state, the woods swelling and receding around the narrowing passageways. Though she didn’t have a self-driving car, indeed, it was almost as though she herself was being piloted. 
It’s as if this life was but a dream. Can I will myself awake? Or sit neutral, contemplating the path stripped from me by terrible chance.
SHe glanced at the booklet on the passenger seat, ‘Learning to Live with Omphalic Sight’. She should read up on this when she arrived, she thought to herself. Bunch of horseshit, no doubt.



Shadow was now setting on the approaching mountains, the dark evergreen forests rolled in the wilderness off to the north. Gazing at their immensity and wildness she longed to go there and be free from her hectic life that has now been hollowed out to a dull routine without goal, the promises of modernity were a Faustian bargain and she longed to meet the devil on those cold waiting mountains.

Her grandfather’s house lay only around the mountain bend, another hour and half along these unused service roads. The gas gauge sounded a warning that her gas was low and she was forced off the byway to a small gas station service center overlooking a cool hemlock ravine. Pulling onto the gravel parking lot, she noticed the remains of an ancient boat broken far up in the woods, half sunken in the pine duff abandoned after a flash flood rudderless, decayed into piled tinder.

Fumes of gas killed any chance of a lovely sunset. Over the fill station a small trickle of songbirds moved northward departing their daytime haunts. Pulled north by an ageless biological imperative back to their birthplace, the birthplace of their species. Chip and zits that Persephone could identify but it seemed hopeless now. Another wave of dead birds flying.

Entering, she saw an old man leaning back in an old chair half snoozing already, prepared for another long vigil overnight at his lonesome business. He awoke, wide-eyed and startled at seeing another human no doubt. They crossed eyes and nodded. He stroked his gray stubble as Persephone navigated the snack aisle to the restroom.

---some dialogue
After the relief afforded, Persephone wandered the snack aisle. Quite the selection they have here.
She grabbed a fistful of candy bars and dropped them on the counter as she reached for her purse.
“Hello.”
“Good evening m’am.” He said hesitantly, waiting for her next question to drop his punchline.
“Yes, hello, can I fill up on pump…” The pump number was eroded away, only curved humps remained. “..number three?”
The old man laughed, sitting up and tilting his red trucker hat up to reveal his patient gray eyes.
“Miss, we haven’t had gas here in years! This old shack just sells snacks and whatnot nowadays. And not too often he said.” Chortling he took the candy and started to ring her up.
“What? Well..can you tell me if there is a place nearby that I can fill up? I’m pretty low and I don’t have the gas to get to my destination.” she cautiously censored herself.
The man  stood up with cane in hand and scratched his chin some more. Slowly.

“Hmm. Well I can probably call a guy to come with some gas to fill you up but that old bastard is probably asleep already” He looks out the window at the gathering twilight. Persephone followed his gaze and her stomach started to curdle at the thought.

“Are you sure there isn’t somebody else?”
“Not that I know of. Miss, there isn’t really many folks still left in these parts.”
Persephone shook her head at her own mispreparation.
“Well I can give you a ride over to town and they can put you up in the hotel for the night. I think they are still operating...Franny, no her daughter is running the place now if I recall. Or was it?” He lost himself in thought.
Persephone was getting a little exasperated now.
“Will that pass by X lake?”
“X lake...not quite sure I’ve heard of an X lake? You mean Y lake?
He took the travel brochure off the counter and spread it for them to look at. He placed his glasses over his nose, “Let’s see here.”
“Here we are. And X lake should be somewhere up here.” Persephone followed the ribbon of road, north, her finger tracing farther than anticipated. “Here.”
“Hmmm, no town will be a bit to the east of there and I don’t know if the roads are open. Mud season and all. But I can take you over to the hotel for the night. It’s quite nice, well last time I’ve seen it.”
The temperature was dropping fast outside. At this elevation it would be well below freezing tonight in the mountains. She tried to make sleeping in her car overnight work in her head but it she dismissed it.
“OK. If you would be so kind, I’d take that trip to the hotel.”
“Very good. We can leave now. I don’t think anybody else will be coming tonight anyhow. Not the season for tourists yet.”
He shambled over to his coat hanging on the wall and jingled his keys in his pocket.

“Oh can I take these bars?”
“Oh yes, just throw some money on the counter. The bears don’t use currency up here.”
She exhaled through her nose and threw the rest of her physical ‘currency’ onto the counter: a few quarters. Exiting the shop, the old man locked up and shut the light. He doesn’t have a stem hookup. One of the oldguard. 
It was dark. Persephone now saw the stars she hadn’t seen in decades. Still there. The thought calmed her and she settled into the beat-up truck that the old man miraculously mounted without trouble.

“Name’s Charlie by the by.” he offered his wrinkled hand as the clunker chugged up the incline and approached a blind corner.
She shook his hand as fast as possible. “Persephone”
He returned to the steering wheel but still the truck overtook the oncoming lane.
Laughing a little to himself, “Don’t worry hun. There is not a soul up here this late at night.”
She wasn’t so sure of that. She looked into the receding black of the side-view mirror and imagined.
“Well why do you still work at the shop then?”
“Oh I live there.”




Merrimack.

Piscataqua.


"Do you think you'll see a Golden-winged this season?" Persephone resurrected, spoke. She stood and listened a moment longer, trying to capture the small contact notes between birds lost now in the cacophony of a tractor trailer pulling off the highway.
Dejected* he returned to the driver seat.
"I hope so*"



Driving away, she felt like this was her last time being in such an urban environment. Her mind was dominated by an overwhelming need to escape. She tried to shake it. The white lines extended forever into the distance straight as a monolith’s shadow on the solstice. Straighter than she’s ever experienced. She changed lanes, but the lines ensnared her in an inhuman steadiness. A path that seemed to be laid out long ago without any fathom of the individuals who would tread it. The lines did not but deviate 1mm in error from the left or right of her she determined as she sped 65mph up the highway. The fading orange star lit the New England forests black against a horizon on fire. Knotted masses below towering /whispering white pines stretching into the scalded atmosphere.  And she knew those screaming black forests were stuck in those same lines as she. Yellow sinking in the unreachable distance. Return to the starting place. She would find herself at home once again.



Driving up into the deep Maine woods

((Wait why is she driving up here? Need GWWA study reminder))