Ch3 Back to Apartment*
*Goes back to her alone apartment, hurricane incoming, and receives report of Golden-winged Warbler on territory up in Maine 
	-starts feeling the effects of A.I. implant, and skips through the manual Learning to Live with Omphalic Sight
  -she skips out on seeing her husband celebrate at the AresX launch (he is an engineer!)


Persephone crashed onto her sanctuary away from the news of the launch. She had intentionally skipped the event. Days earlier, Mike had reached out hoping to open communication lines to her but she had refused to answer the message. She was still simmering with rage, absolute seething hatred and a grief that ripped her soul apart into a frenzy whenever she thought of her husband. He is lucky I didn’t kill him right then and there. 

She noticed the messages on her phone from the lawyers. But they didn’t know the horrible truth. That he was the one that took her daughter from her. That his negligence and incompetence was the answer that her brightest star had now faded and her lifeless existence now hung cold pale, shrouded. 

My head is killing me, she thought. She staggered to the bathroom for painkillers, thought twice, and took the prescribed dose. This chip bullshit might work eventually. A grim figure reflected her sunken eyes back to her while the invisible knot in her brainstem pulsed. Slamming the cabinet door, she returned to the living room and shut off the lights.

The television here too conspired against her. Every channel was showing the historic launch from the moon. She switched it off. She tried to close her eyes for sleep’s relief but red shards shattered behind her eyelids. Twisting and writhing in pain she decided to focus on other things until the meds kicked in.

 Getting on to her computer she decided to focus on her work. Opening up the observational database for bird sightings across North America she noticed the sharp increase in wood warbler reports across the Gulf states as expected. A few early reports of Prothonotary and Hooded Warblers streamed in across Mid-Atlantic and even the Canadian maritimes. Early was subjective as decade by decade the timing of migrations trended backwards. Still no reports of her subject, Vermivora chrysoptera.

It was once abundant across the eastern United States in the spring and summer as males set up territories in shrubby wetland habitats adjacent to mature forests. Their gleaming golden cap and black mask made them easy to identify as well as their namesake golden wing panel. However, the forces of human development had forced this bird’s population into a steep decline starting in the late 20th century. It faced threats on its breeding territory as well as its wintering habitat in Central and South America, now rapidly developed with little to no shade forest for migratory birds to survive in. A deadly pincer eating away at the species survival. Additionally, the Blue-winged Warbler was interbreeding with ‘pure’ Golden-wingeds creating viable hybrids which outnumbered the ‘pure’ birds. Now, in the middle of the next century, the bird was functionally extinct and its unique genetic material gone. For the past two years, not a single report had been found to be credible anywhere in the world.

Persephone looked up at her wall where the photos of the last few pairs of the birds she worked with hung. She had studied the one pair for two consecutive seasons in New York while the others she only had a single season with in Michigan and Quebec. The Quebec site she fondly remembered. Iphi was still a toddler then playing in the dappled sunlit fields next to the site where she would take her along as she studying the breeding birds. Thinking back, the Quebec site had been an idyllic time for the family. Mike would drop off Iphy would go to preschool with the Quebecoies and learn little French words. Come home babbling “Oui messours” and “x”.

In the Canadian countryside, Persephone would go on to write her doctoral thesis on the Golden-winged territorial defense of habitat against encroaching Blue-wingeds. The multiple seasons allowed for her to detail the interactions. The old couple who discovered the birds lived down the road and the old man, Alfred, would often come bumbling through the undergrowth behind her to see how ‘his’ birds were getting along. Many hours were spent in the cold spring time under budding branches studying the birds' habitats. She would come home to Mike with a lovely brunch of pancakes and fresh fruit.

Summer would bring about its warmth and for a week or two the heat would be welcome before it developed into an almost intolerable swamp inside her full mosquito net suit. But those things weren’t what Persephone now remembered. It was Iphy, her little plump smiling face covered in syrup and rolling around in the grass outside. They were lucky to also avoid the relative turmoil in the States at that time. 

Brrzztttt
A flash of blue vibration interrupted her reverie and she instinctively picked up her phone, a second before she realized she didn’t want to.
Check out Maine
It was from her old supervisor, Larry. She recognized the impulse in her to check the other texts and voicemails on her phone but stopped it. Today was hard enough.
Quizzically, Persephone thought for a second, Maine? 
Then it dawned on her to search the bird observations of Maine.
There it was 1 record of a Golden-winged reported in X county.
Persephone took another bite of her pizza, wiping her hand on her pants as she clicked the link, skeptically slow. Many reports have been either straight up hoaxes for attention or hybrids in the past.
THe observation showed a breeding plumaged male, unequivocally.
Mary Fitchburg. Coordinates Obscured, Maine. 
MEGA. This breeding pair of GWWA was found on private property. See photo for characteristics distinguishing from all known hybrids and backcrosses. The female was seen briefly but it did not share the yellowness associated with female BWWA. Please alert the relevant authorities and do no make remove the private filter on this observation for fear of disturbing the birds with undue stress from MOB.

Persephone sat awestruck for a second, head in hands fingers massaging her temples. She then ran a reverse image search of the photo. It returned no hits. It was real.

Should I go and see these birds? They could be the last true pair of a doomed species. Doomed just like how she felt here, all family gone and adrift and at the mercy of the Atlantic’s deathrattle. The pull of responsibility overtook her and she reasoned it would be good to get her mind off things. 
Do you know where they are?

The hurricane broadcast shone red from the television set, announcing an intensification of Hurricane Aliyah to a Category 2. It was settled.

The phone answered, Yes.

WIth a ticket booked for Boston next morning, she packed her bags and grabbed a photo of Iphy from the wall.

