Ch7 Bonfire Bacchanalia

*She is invited to bonfire and initiated
  -more Dionysian AI
--Themes: Bataillean anthropology >> “Deep anthropology” >> humanity reverting to the animalistic
--Introduce characters who will espouse the sacred knowledge of Dionysus
--some dialogue between Persephone and a cultist, speaking about general philosophy
–townie conspiracies, total collapse of shared epistemology
   
--Waste/expenditure as control mechanism against runaway capital? Runaway sentience? A slight, an insult, an execration  against our forced role in the expansion of this ‘thing’ that is trying to propagate itself, to form the critical mass of resources for exponential takeoff. We deprive it with ritual waste, prolonging its goal and denying its accumulation for another day

--There is much wine passed around and raw meat. Then comes the great ritual, when Persephone is officially inducted. She is told she will be exiled for a few days to the mountain side with other women.

For what was this small town Maine striving towards? It was arguable that there was nothing left here but memories and ruins and guaranteed extirpation at the hands of a tightening economic stranglehold.
	[Maybe that was ‘their’ plan, to force the human population into urban spaces to preserve the 50% wild Earth. Last ditch shot at saving the species/mitigating effects of climate disruption or so they say] --add to market paragraph

But the townies remained, mostly by the same familiar forces of inertia and habit. They didn’t have much to look forward to each year. A tough, short growing season in rocky and shaded soil capped by a brutally cold short winter that outlasted their meager accumulated stocks for the most part. But their one big hope was not for a surplus to build off of, no, it was the anticipation of the expenditure of that surplus, of any reserve left. This could be seen with the archaic lotto gambling crowd daily but every year the entire population lent itself to this mania of rapturous eruption of energy that they had scrabbled together. Nobody noticed the fact that every year’s celebration was more paltry than the last, winter has its own amnesiac qualities. For now, the Earth still relinquished enough (though with a tighter fist than the recent past).

It was the May Day festival. A bacchus of fire and drink and rowdy faces in the red dark. Old friends in an unfamiliar setting. There they burnt through their stockpile of winter wood as if winter would never come again, defeated at last. It was an ecstatic mania of dancing, drinking, and revelry where the only look to the future was with the sneering, contemptuous eye of responsibility scorned. In essence, it was a portal to an eternal present. Ritualized debauchery and release.

---
Children ringed about the fire, shadows played on their faces dancing. The adults sat in their folding chairs downflame apart, watching them goad the fire with small offerings of twigs and grass like their half-gened ancestors had surrounded by these self-same trees.. Simple sacrifices from which they will build to more valuable gifts*: time, health, youth itself.

Malcolm entered from the gravelly darkness trailing his girlfriend giddily auguring dirt with highheels her twig legs anchored by heavy boots. He carried two chairs on each arm and an extra cooler through the loop of his right arm. He staggered over to the couple and more threw the chairs down than set them up. Puffing, he collapsed into his seat as his girlfriend made her rounds around the fire, greeting old friends and family. Malcolm was a ‘refugee’ from Florida after his house was destroyed in the first Cat 6, Ophelia. 
“You know what I say, Maine sure is beautiful but it's sure full of maniacs” He shook his head as he cracked open his light beer of choice.
He has been up in Maine for a few years now and has been making himself known around town as the resident fixer. He was able to corale the business on the phones about getting more supplies and deliveries that were getting harder to come by. Occasionally he would work his magic in getting some good deals for the farmers despite their orneriness. This only buoyed to baseline as his reputation around town was now falling fast anchored to Mad Dog (Madeliene).

Persephone sat in the soccer field chair surrounding the fire apart from the rest of the town. They all seemed jovial enough but the sun had set now and the fire was lit. In the red flare of the roaring inferno their laughing faces seemed sinister, even manic. She was handed a solo cup.
“What is it?” looking up at James who sat next to her.
“Wine. Hela makes it at home specially for this event every year.”
Taking a sip the acrid taste singed her tongue, a bouquet of old Maine bathtub hinted outwards.
“Not bad.” Persephone winced in the darkness. At least it will get me through this.
She looked at James, she was smiling watching the kids chase each other in and out of the firelight. He was cheering them on with a big grin, leant over and cradling his cup in two hands.
She smiled. The blonde boy fell arms out forward and the little girl chasing him did tumble over him. They both jumped up immediately and continued their chase with shining imp faces.
<<dialog exposition and romance subplot between P and J>>
…

“You’ll like what comes next.”
A procession of lights was walking from the porch of the house. The lights bobbed down the field. 
“Will-o-wisps” James whispered. The crowd of people around the fire whispered and pointed and hushed and turned in their charis. All heads up and alert and eager. The group of people from earlier returned through the shadows towards the house out in the field.
The torch train did one circle around the firegroup a larger concentric circle encircling them still far enough away to be obscured in the shadow. Persephone watched them. No hoods. No robes. They are in the same attire as before.
She noticed that in between each torchbearer there was a person holding a jar. A jar of wine like you’d see from Greek or Roman times, spun ceramic complete with the bold black imagery of gods. And then she noticed the small wreath behind everybody’s ears.

The seated all stood simultaneously and followed them as if on cue. James winked and followed the group, ushering her to follow with a small hither from his hand.
The dwindling bonfire cracked, the children’s screams were heard in the black distance, their silhouettes batlike in the porch light. The figure of a woman back towards the farmhouse waved her hands and summoned them inside. One by one they were swallowed into her lit arms and the door closed.

The dark woods was quickly swallowing the torches in its teeth. She stood and rushed to catch up with them. This shit is crazy. What the fuck am I getting myself into? I need that car..

She tagged James but didn’t say a word. The footsteps crunched through the leaves and plants of the woods. Some younger folk toward the back of the line were bouncing up and down dancing, skipping almost. The rest solemnly marched through the trees.

Tree shadows scanned like windshield wipers on the forestfloor. The trees opened to a grove with a large central oak gnarled into a near-petrified state. Persephone, exiting the oppressive stands of pillars looked up at the great starry sky through its barren branches. It was hard to say whether the tree was still living but it must have been centuries old. Its limbs maliciously overhung the group. Persephone sat on a log at the very perimeter of the grove. THis is insane.The moon was waxing full above casting the townspeople in a blue stellar light.

Lining up in another circle the torches formed a pentagram along its circumference. Below each torchbearer's feet was a small pit filled with firewood.

A man in a robe. No, not a robe. An apron?

A man in a white apron walked and addressed the circle from directly in front of the large tree, its branches reaching into the night, never terminating, up into infinity, lines to the stars.
“Brethren, let us be merry. For we have made it another winter. Apollo shines upon us but we know that it is a treacherous smile that he casts. We have gathered here to address the true vision and bring it forth into a new day from the womb of Mother Night.”

Women walked around now placing something in the hands of all the participants. Participants indeed. The people held their hands clasped in front of them. A woman exited her inner orbit and reached Persephone’s position, she held her hands out as the others had. The woman reached into her container and drew out an inky squirming thing and held it a second longer over the waiting hands. She dropped it into Persephone’s hands. A wet slimy creature wriggled in her hands. She clasped them and then clasped them tighter. She could feel its little feet and head pushing up against her skin.

“Remember! Remember. The sights beyond sight we have seen. Epiphanies shared between us in twilight glade. These are the truths of this world. But this knowledge has come at a terrible cost. And it must always be renewed afresh. It is only visible through those tears in our perceptions into the noumena, in the distillation of the stillness of the mountain wind, in the seething wounds of our earth, in the frenzied dance of the maenads. Now we renew our commitments to Lord Dionysus. Forever.”

He lifted one open palmed hand to the sky. And one closed fist.
The circle raised their clasped fists and bowed.

Then he took his closed fist to his mouth and shoved it into his mouth. The others did the same. The sound of gulps and gags and whoops and cries filled the air.


Persephone raised hers. The moon bright in her face, searing like a second sun in the sky.
Elbows jutted into her, hands waved her on. Do it.
She followed their lead. She picked up the red creature by the tail and then by the head, squeezed and pulled. The head of the newt popped off and the body dismembered was split into bloody pulp in her hands. Still they urged. She took the heads and her cup of wine brought by an eager young woman in the middle of the circle.
Persephone closed her eyes and put the head in her mouth and swallowed with a big gulp of wine. She finished the body with more of a struggle. She coughed and sputtered. No response or reaction from the crowd. James, across the circle from her, held his arms crossed. She got it down with another heroic gulp. She coughed again, into the silent eyes circling.The tail getting caught in her throat. And it’s down.

They all clapped and cheered. The elbows clapped on her on back. The servant girl brought more wine for her.

“Now everyone, we have a new inductee! Persephone why don’t you introduce yourself for those of us who haven’t met you yet.”

“Hi everyone, I’m Persephone.”
Hellos issued forth from the torch and blindspots around her.
“She will help us in our mission to bring about a new understanding among humanity. We are closer now than ever. Technological so-called advancement has taken many things from us. As we who live here know. But it has now made a device capable of enlightening the whole of humanity, of showing them in their own way the God that Comes. He now can appear directly into the mind’s eye of anyone. Persephone here is the first to respond to our call.”

Persephone head spun. “No, it was my grandfather who called me here. He texted me.” she said, low to herself.
He continued, ignoring her.
He now picked up a rod.
“Let the festivities begin.”
The torches were brought down to the five firepits. People broke from the ranks and started to mingle. Persephone stood frozen. No, they didn’t call me. Who are these people? I drove up from Miami...Mike was leaving town.
The Apron’ed Man was walking towards her, twirling his rod like a circus-ringer.
She backed up. No, this isn’t real. I drove up to my grandfather’s. He texted me. I’m here in the Maine woods..surrounded by cultists, in the middle of nowhere, at night and no electricity no phone.
He kept approached doing a little side dance as if listening to his own music in his head. The moon backlit his approach.
“Oh yea! It’s starting to kick in now!”
“Good batch this year, Hela!” Malcolm called from an orgiastic fleshpile.
Persephone tripped over a log.
“Hey Persey, I’m not going to hurt you..
She didn’t want to stick around to hear the rest of whatever this was, or what the festivities were. She ducked into the blueberry bushes and sprinted for her life. Rushing trees and branches, twigs and leaves caught her eyes. She ran headlong, arms out swiping ad brushing aside the vegetation. Behind, yells of the people. Apron Man tumbled and crashed behind. More footsteps in the leaf litter, rustling and mayhem as the people grabbed torches and rushed to light the woods.
“We got a runner...oh man.”

…