Ch5 Morning after Arrival/Pan’s Hour
*First day in town (some preliminary research revealed it was an old town...almost abandoned now)
  -meet James, works in hotel (transylvania)
  -description of town, setting
  -enters eerie hotel for her stay, moose another extirpated doomed species
  -sleep
*wakes up, lured to woods by Pan*
  -trees, vernal pool
  -collapses from memories of daughter trauma
  -is found by people later to be revealed as witches* (know where she is??)
  

The loud rattling of Charlie’s overworked truck engine woke Persephone. She half-expected to be at her Grandfather’s house when she opened her eyes. She found herself in a small rustic room with simple furniture fittings.  Her backpacks and clothes lay crumpled in a corner as she slowly reoriented herself. The hotel.

Looking out the window she saw Charlie pulling away down the long driveway, past the green lawn pocked with empty Adirondack chairs and a small central firepit with stepping stones that snaked to the front of the hotel out of sight where a black supply truck stood idling. Any sense of dread that Persephone might have felt looking at the van was extinguished after a small pump in her head shot chemicals.
 Looking at the time, it was already quite late but before noon. The birds would be quieting down already but I have to get my car situation fixed first. Realizing that she would have to interact with the staff downstairs alone filled her with a familiar anxiety which soon dissipated. Hey, that’s an improvement. She threw on a sweater and pants, tied up her hiking boots, tidied her sack into a pile, and went out into the hall following the smell of hours old breakfast lingering in the air.

The hallway was decorated with paintings and photos from what must have been the boom times. The floor creaked beneath her feet giving away any sense of stealth she might have wanted. She descended the stairwell and through the posts saw a spacious living room with a large fire place and small fire going. Over on the wall was a large oil painting of a solitary white tree with low hanging branches, it was painted from a perspective low to the ground looking up such that the cosmos above could be seen through the winter-bare branches pocked with stars.

Beyond was a galley kitchen, where one man was cleaning pots and pans. The young man noticed her as she reached the landing. 
“Good morning.” he said, in an energetic voice born of the country, wiping his hands on his apron.
“Morning” she said, “I came in late last night and I was wondering if I could get in contact with somebody...my car is,”
“Oh yes, Old Charlie was just speaking to me about it. He’s off right now to find somebody with gas.”
“Oh well, its a rental. I don’t know if I mentioned that. I figured if I could call the rental company then they could send somebody and they’d pick it up. I just need a ride out to my grandfather’s house over in Z”
“OK then I’ll him now” he went for his phone in his pocket. “My name is James. Please to meet ya.”
“Cora, likewise.”
“Oh hey, just make yourself at home. There’s some flapjacks on the table if you’re hungry.”
“Thanks!” Flapjacks already in sight you hunk you.

Pan’s Hour
*Proteus chapter (Ulysses)
*Plato’s cave allegory, out of the house and into the real. Ineluctable modality of the sapient
*Mad piping god Pan
*Yellow leaves +vernal pools

Persephone grabbed a few of the flapjacks right off the plate with her hands and walked over to the bay window overlooking the gently sloping lawn. It was nearly noon. James disappeared into the back kitchen and she was left alone in the late morning silence. There was no wind today and the sunny alcove by the wind threatened to glue her to the seat as if she were a cat. If only there was a cat here then it’d be perfect.

<<Warped glass gives real world a sheen of the surreal/illusory =Plato’s Cave analogy

A brilliant flash of orange called her to the outside world. An freshly arrived oriole high on the bare tree down by the street. Lighting up the gray subdued atmosphere of the portrait she was watching, come alive.
Her thoughts came back to her as her blood sugar rose and decided if to explore the property for new arrivals just to keep tabs on the developments up here. Running upstairs to her room, she rummaged in her backpack for her binoculars (toyed with the idea of grabbing her camera but decided to keep it stored and hidden), and geared up. On the precipice of the doorway, she peeked around the corner. Nobody. She snuck another flapjack adorned with fresh maple syrup.

The chilly April air was bracing after the warmth of the lodge interior but it was a fresh crisp day with nary a cloud in the sky and not a hint of wind. In fact, she thought, it was oddly still. The crackle of the gravel under her feet was the only sound she could hear as walked the circumference of the hotel towards its back. She found herself opting to walk on the discrete grass after a moment. The hotel, It was an old structure with the siding in disrepair in places but its unique architectural personality still shone through the unique woodcraftsmanship of the small details and tresses.

A small, mixed flock of birds caught her eye. She could tell it was a mixed flock based on the season, environment, the calls and songs of the birds. A mixed flock is a group of multiple bird species foraging or migrating together. These are exciting in spring because the resident, non-migratory birds are already setting up nests and territories and moved into a competitive spirit rather than a cooperative one. That leaves only the migratory birds still heading north to form the composite mixed flocks. And these birds still on migration can pop up in habitats that don’t normally frequent, city parks, grassland species on the seashore.  Persephone headed towards the wood’s edge back behind the wood pile, axe driven into the thumping stump freshly, to investigate.

Chickadee dee dee. The nasal mocking chicken-sounds of a White-breasted nuthatch. Oh! And there was a Red-breasted nuthatch tooted his little horn deeper in on a pine stand. She hadn’t seen one of those in quite some time. Hurriedly yet with the steadiness of a lifelong habit she took out her note and jotted down 
Hotel 11:45am 
WBNH 1
 BCC 2
RBNH 1

She breached the tree line, past the brush piles accumulated from year’s past. The flock was moving north and kept calling. Zeet zeet. She picked out some Yellow-rumped Warblers in there, high in the canopy. Down lower a brilliant adult Black-throated Blue worked the forest floor and mid-levels. Calling incessantly, home.
But there, what was that? It was an intermittent noise, heavier and bassier than a bird for sure. Mammalian. Persephone ceased walking, and listened. Caws echoed up from the valley below as she waited for the walking sound she had heard moments before. It came from ahead of her, deeper in the woods but past the trees she could see through her binoculars more sunlight filtering down through a lighter canopy where the pines did not go up ahead. Golden-wingeds preferred edge habitat like that. She headed that way tentatively, waiting for the other sounds to reestablish herself. 

Sloping upwards, she could tell the drainage and forest composition was changing. The undergrowth hadn’t formed into the tangled knotted mazes of summer. Mosquitoes were not biting today.
And there, the noise. She listened and realized it wasn’t walking. But more a murmur. A person. The sound you hear on a trail of people talking on adjacent trails, sometimes half a mile away or more, their speech can diffuse through a wood leaving the bass notes to haunt ears. She waited and thought of the wood axe down below her. Shaking her head, she travelled onwards to the clearing. Afterwards, she promised herself, she would turn back. The sounds of the road below would no longer be discernible even if there was any traffic in this remote place.
She hiked upwards.

--indistinct chatter that one hears in a forest trail where the cause is never seen and to be wondered at
--add flora (skunk cabbage, swamp white oak, american holly in bottomlands, floodplains)

She hurried back up the hemlock embankment of the road to check her house. Nothing stirred. Confused and with a sense of the stillness around her, she slid up down against a treetrunk, her feet sinking into the pine detritus. No birds, and the wind had died entirely now. Far-off the same repeated whistles or musical notes resounded back further in the brush. Persephone, struggling up as silently as possible inched onto the open road. The yellow elm leaves of winter still hung in the air, low branches filtering light into a cathedral painted glass. Their pale white trunks pillars of their own natural sanctum anchored by deep unknown roots. Ahead, the piping played more frequently in her head. She hummed the rhythm nervously, looking around the tree trunks cautiously as she moved further away. Looking back, she no longer saw the road. Looking ahead, she wasn’t certain that it did not lay right in front of her. The statued elms gave no counter-melody to her humming rhythm, cuckoo-time standstill. Graveyard stillness over fecund soil.

A patch of yellowed dead leaves piled about the largest trunk of an elm ahead of her. She immediately recognized it as the forefather of the others, his sprouts keeping guard of his dominion and buffering the encroachment of feeble and contemptuous oaks and ivies. The large stiff branches lay eye-level stretching before her, tentacled and awesome, measuring dozens of yards reaching and spreading. The yellow leaves piled higher around her ankles as she moved among the floating canopy. Cuckoo, cuckoo. The yellow piled in the center, under the trunk, the yellow piled on the wet spring earth. Her bare feet sucked the mud, clumping leaves to her legs and thighs, stuck. Blood pounding in her ears accompanied the incessant music in her head. She stumbled, disoriented by the total silence without her and the increasing static within. What did it mean? Her mind was overcome by images, memories, and sensations. Senseless images: x ,y, z. Blackened chimneys spewing abyssal clouds, time’s accretion sprouted life in the eternal shadow. Eggs of fish on the ocean wind, drifting plankton plucked by tubenoses aloft. Floating, yellow spinning top on glass, broken. 

Her mind worked against itself, straining to bring an order or a meaning. Trees roots upending untraveled sidewalks. Waves of bird migration aeons over and again, shining for radar in a brilliant flash, and retreating into a darkened globe to repeat their voyage relentless. Tallgrass hiding supple avatars of pain. They worked into a frothing, cool-boiling melange in her head, into a musical splash that worked in a periodicity. She waved her limbs out among the branches low. And spun with the them as they spiraled out, and up at a pace accelerated and still. She swirled and jumped, barefeet sinking to the floor and soft plantlife bowed for her. A pain reached her inner head, her neurons on fire, overclocked and strained to breaking. She panted in the cold spring morning, was it morning? The filtered light had shifted, the shadow cast by the mountain now lay sickle-like through the tops of the trees. Revolution, galactic spirals, three-bodies never resolved in solution but approximated, ever approximated to an asymptotic infinity.

A branch snaps in her periphery.

Jolting upright, stockstill, Persephone listened with that animal intensity that comes of an adrenaline rush though in the next millisecond she cognized that her options of flight or fight wouldn’t materialize. A false choice.
A man with an axe materialized through the trees, half-camouflaged by branches and leaves. Glacial blood veins.
“Hey!” -barked the snapping branch.
Eyes locked steady in a rotating whirling world of green. He stepped forwards into reality.
And she was off in a bound, the running doe fleeing at the instant of chase. Through the bramble at the side of the glade her khaki hiking pants tearing as the thorns lashed her. Ducking and sprinting, heavy hot breath, escaping, falling down the hill, around an erratic, ears turned backwards and eyes overloaded with peripheral environmental information, she ran on.

“Hey! Hey!” masculine shouts pierced her frame. She continued downwards, skillfully pressing off sturdy trunks, and sliding down between bushes, sapling ropes. Lost grip and falling, tumbled sky and leaf and soil muddied, hair flipped from her face.
Wet now, surrounded by mud, she half-recovered upright and fell as a submerged log restrained her boot. Skunkweed surrounded her in the bog, fetid fecund haze. She fell into the black pool through her waves. Whipping up, she looked down to a sea of eyes, a million pupils staring back at her through their black viscous sclera. Gripping muscous membranes sucked at her skin, writhing amphibious beings coated her body as she sunk deeper into the mire. A monstrous alien entity intent on devouring her, new detritus for its sulfur-belching maw, tentacled roots growing upwards threaten her entanglement. She thrashed in the water, desperate with these visions of chaos.
Turning floating on her back, the shouting was still coming, the footsteps of man encroaching the shore. Depleted she tried to stand, the croaking of treefrogs mocked her efforts. Ringing in her ears. The island of yellow in the middle revealed her wrecked figure, afloat on the medusa. Emerging from the muck, she crawled onto the vegetated shore, depleted. The axeman wading into the waters after her, nearing, close, here... She recognized this man. James.

>>Chase scene, through woods and swamp, she falls into vernal pool with frog eggs covering her, Lovecraftian eyes all over, sinking into the muck...Iphy. Baying frog creatures at dusk, treehounds (tree frogs croaking)
>Rescued by James
James rushed to the muddied and collapsed woman.

Frantically, tending to her, love of his, love of hers left the grove, muddy-spiraled and grooved stage unnoticed, but yet attended.