Ch6 James’ POV/Realization
*Briefly detail the chase from James perspective
*Have him watch her uneasily but attracted to her
*Ask sly questions...he knows why she's up here but she doesn't
*Meets with person who saw GW warbler next morning
  -(Why did they bring her here? Did they really see them?)
  -realizes she’s being watched, followed as she investigates the area for signs of GWWA

James had first heard the wail as he exited the hotel to chop more firewood forage mushrooms and a subconscious reminiscence skipped over his mind like a stone on water. It echoed through the still, leafless trees in the orange setting sun and he knew that something was awry. He tramped off up the trail behind the hotel immediately to help, and perhaps forestall the inevitable.
The sun was setting and tonight would be a cold night, with a strong cold front coming in. Today’s mild temperature and wind was a mere calm before a ferocious last gasp of winter.
And the sun was losing power fast.
He sped up.
Not ten minutes into his hike, without hearing another sound, he saw a figure through the trees.
He had found his quarry, the woman that had checked in last night and had not remembered.
She was moving from tree to tree, placing her palms on the trunks and seemingly listening with her head bowed down.
Yes, she was another summoned.
He watched and followed from a distance.
The woman approached the top of the trail from the back of the hill where the trail meets at its apex. The large American Beech glowing white in the last rays of sunlight.
He stopped and waited, watching what she would do now. He saw her moving erratically, almost spinning, arms out and mutely wailing, as if internally fighting a battle.
Knowing that these bouts can last all night but that this was a particularly dangerous night to be out, he slowly approached...axe at the ready, just in case her mind had cracked already.
People under this spell were not to be underestimated. He had learned that lesson.
Behind the next larger tree, he crouched and gained better vantage to view.

Under her long black hair disarrayed were her shining full eyes. Eyes open but not seeing their surroundings, but rather seeing through them, he conjectured. Rubbing the back of his neck, he shivered to think of what she saw.
But night would not grant him the luxury of patience. She could get even worse. It has to be now. He stood, gathered his breath, and calmly walked forward, slanting the axe behind him.
“Hello. Miss!”
The sentinel continued her watch of the noumena enclosing her.
“Miss. It’s James, from the hotel, remember. Pancakes?”
Persephone eyes had detected his motion. She slowly turned her head to him and looked through him.
“Persephone is it?”
Her eyes had awakened. She’s awake. His eyes could not look away from the silver quarter sized beacons that trained on his axe now. He felt that she could feel his hot blood pounding in his veins now. He bent to put his axe down and the banshee fled.




The young man threw down his axe and rushed to the side of the woman, fainted imprint in the mud He gently shook her, “Ma’m, Mam are you OK?”
She started, eyes rolling slowly and then jolted upright, scrambled backwards away from him still unable to stand.
“It’s OK. I...just found you here. I didn’t mean to startle you, I was just wondering where you had gone off to and I saw you. And you looked distraught and disoriented..it was weird. Are you OK?”
Her eyes were wide and at once locked on the man in the woods alone with her and scanning the tree line. This was an unfamiliar wood and her flesh prickled and goosebumps at the situation. She shakily stood, he remained crouched, elbows resting on his knees.
“Thank you, I must have not had enough to eat today.”
“Sure I can help you back down to the hotel if you’d like.”
She tried to look sure of herself but her shaking legs betrayed her. No, it was not him that had shook her foundation. She looked at the white bark of the mighty beech dominating the hillock. Its red, brown leaves tittered in a rolling breeze over the mountain. Day was fading quick.

Thank you was all she offered for response or explanation and he did not pry and sought her presence away from this place. He picked up his leaf-buried axe as they descended back.

She had lost her sure-footedness.
“How did you find me?”
“There’s a trail through back there and when I get the urge I usually head up that way. A little farther along there you can climb a small ridge and get a view of the valley. I figured you saw the trail sign and were up there for the day.”
“I must have dozed off under that tree.” another tepid excuse. What is wrong with? None of this is right. I have to get to out of here and over to my grandpa’s. Grandma must be worried sick.
“I really have to go and see my grandmother. She is living alone now and I told her that I would be arriving this morning.”
“Oh who is your grandmother?”
“Mrs. BlahBlah”
The expression on the young’s face changed, almost imperceptibly, gaining a more stoic appearance. Persephone noted it.
“Ah, yes. He used to live right up on BlahBlah street.”
“No he still lives up there.”
James didn’t argue the point. She’ll find out sooner or later. Those are the least of her worries.

“Charlie can take you up there in the morning.” he said, opening the door to the hotel. The fire had dwindled to ashes.
“Here, please come down and sit by the fire after you change. I’m sure you are freezing after that vernal pool you fell in. Chilled to the bone even. I’ll get some food going. It’s just you and me tonight.”

After changing into dry clothes, Persephone walked down. The roaring fire was now casting shadows across the antique couch in front, the dim lights of the kitchen were on around the corner. Persephone curled up on one end of the couch taking a blanket on her lap. She tried to recall why she had ventured into the woods that afternoon.

Birds. Yes there were birds. But that whistling…
“So where are you up from?” James came in, setting up a small table in front of her before disappearing back into the kitchen for the prepared dinner.
“Miami.”
“Hmm” That was a new one for James “I’ve never been that far south. How is it faring nowadays?”
“Not well, you’re either baking or drowning half the time.”
“Yea, I heard. But at least there is civilization still down there. Electricity. Up here they just let us rot it seems. But of course, a lot of people prefer it that way. At least the ones that stuck around. I pretty much grew up this way so it doesn’t bother me all that much.” he came over two steaming bowl.
He placed one down in front of her as she sat up. He went and sat on the reclining chair on the opposite end of the fireplace.
“Smells great, what is this?”
“It’s my rendition on a lamb korma.”
“Oh wow.” She took a bite “Delicious! Wow look at you, all fancy up here.”
He nodded, pleased with his mouth full.
“And lamb did you say”
“Yea haven’t had some of that in a while I bet.”
She nodded. “Yes it's very good. Real live animal, huh”
“Real live, grown-on-a-field under its own power, animal” he chewed.

The dinner evaporated quickly and they were left with the crackling trance of the fire to entertain them. James had been sitting stockstraight the entire time.
“Why are you up here anyway? You mentioned your grandfather, are you visiting him?”
“Yes. I received a text from him about a bird…”
James tilted his head.
“I’m a biologist and this particular bird is severely endangered. Some conjecture that it is extinct, and most people agree that it is functionally extinct as a species no matter what. My grandfather says that he saw a pair up around here a few days ago. So I am up here to gather evidence and document them.”
James nodded again.
“That’s a shame.”
“Yea…” Persephone stared into the fire as another log crumbled away into red embers behind the screen. (The screen has figures of satyrs and fairies, their shadows playing on the couch)

“Is that what you were doing up there on the trail today?”
Persephone looked up, broken from her trance, the mediation on nothing as one looks into a fire.
“Today, before you got lost and I scared the shit out of you. Were you birdwatching?”
Persephone quickly answered, “Oh yes, birdwatching. Birding as we call it.”
“Ah…” James put his hand on his legs, fidgeted, then stood and took his bowl and grabbed the empty bowl Persephone offered.
“Well, I’m about to hit the hay. You can sleep down here for the night if you prefer the fire, or your room. We aren’t expecting any visitors.” Then again, that’s what I thought last night…

He shut off the singular kitchen light leaving the den brimstone red.
“I’ll be back here, across from the galley if you need anything. Hope you feel better, goodnight.”
He waved from across the room.

Persephone turned back to the fire. The flippant/casual way in which he said goodnight had reminded her of an incident last year with Mike. His daughter was missing him. Always working late, weekends, always distracted as she tried to play with him. She ran to me crying one day, small Iphy so fragile. I picked her up. It would be OK. I lied. He was on the phone and readying his things to leave. How dare I? His own daughter, right here in the physical was needing him and he was leaving now, stomping on the dolls beneath his feet. He promised but I should have known. He’s consumed, he’s there right now. The fire raged quietly before her without motion. I should have put Iphy in her room, she didn’t have to see that.
	He’s always ignoring the here and now. Ignoring me. Ignoring us. Turning his back and playing the righteous one. Giant leap for mankind. Giant leap into an abyss. The fires of hell with him. Journey to a dead planet as we kill this one. Ignoring the cries and pleas of the masses, washed in flame burning, crying out and ignored. A small step to his northern neighbor, walled off, and machine gunned. Drowned. As the fire grows steadily, grows to encompass the entire world without escape, rocket fuel mixing with forest fires in inexorable dream action. The heavenly embers silently watch the clamoring/clamorant suffocate...











Ch6.1 Grandfather’s House
	*open on shutting Charlie’s car door, Persephone steps out
	*investigates house, discovers it abandoned...but finds evidence...of some mystery
	*coordinates
	*Theme?
	*Inspiration: Russian Ural Yeti disappearance of campers
             A Quick One Before the Eternal Worm Devours Connecticut-Deathconsciousness
	

	*in book entries of journal detailing the coven, the aims, the madness, his determination    to expose them, them catching on to him, harassing him, threatening him, they are coming
	

Charlie’s car bounced down the muddy river of a road, receding into the distance. Persephone stood at the end of the long gravel drive that led to her grandfather’s house. The mailbox, which was functionally useless ever since The Great Unplugging, read 37 “Albrite’s”. She smiled at her maiden name despite the drippy rain coming down over her jacket hood. Trudging up the drive she looked about the front lawn hill where they used to tumble down as kids, in a contest to see who could keep rolling the longest. Jeremy being yelled at to stop as he kept going almost to the road. She smirked a wistful smirk. The porchlight wasn’t on and she wondered if he knew she was coming that day. The dark brown shingles of the siding were more moss covered than she remembered, it added a certain charm to this little cabin in the woods. He saw his car garage closed but saw tire treads leading to it. At least I’ll have transportation now. No more crazy ol’ Charlie. 

Stepping up onto the porch, she swung the porch rocker its paint chipping off as it has been for the last thirty years. She dehooded and wiped her face. Hmm, curtains are closed. She pulled back the screen door and used the door knocker (what was this thing?). Triple beat on wood as the rain continued to beat on the roof over her head. This rain will really get the leaves out she thought.
She waited. No response. She knocked again.
“Grandpa Dio! It’s Persephone! Persy!” her breath forming clouds shot through with rain.
She tried looking through the old paned glass windows again. She saw the old CRT TV, and Dio’s pile of papers and books on a desk in the corner. No lights were on downstairs.
“Mr. Albrite! Grandpa Dio!” 
Locked.

She circled around the side of the house now, past the huge rhododendron bushes that were so good for hide-and-seek. Looking up and covering her face to see through the water, she saw a light on through a window. His bedroom...I think.

She went to the red side door that led into the kitchen. And I tried it. The door gave with a slight push. Wood expanded from the humidity. Entering into a little mudroom section, Persephone took off her waterproof and wiped her boots with a ‘dog’ towels laying in the corner. She flipped the light switch. Nothing. I keep forgetting that.

Entering the den, a miasma of decrepitude hit her. Dust kicked up from the red rug now gray where she used to work in her coloring books with her cousins. The clock stood still, no electricity of course. Walking past the mantle of the fireplace, she noticed the antique rifle that had rested there all her life. Her heart started to beat as the realization came in. He did send me that text a few days ago though. She started towards the stairs, held the banister a second and listened, the steady static of rain like a signal cutoff filled the silence. She looked up at the dimly lit second floor, a light was certainly on.  It was only her own footsteps creaking on the wood floor that she had heard, convinced and she slowly started up past the family pictures. Ski trips from an era long gone. Even then the snow season had been elusive.
Poking her head up at the second floor she saw the bedroom door ajar, a light out of her view dimly shining. She creaked her way over. No stealth now. She strode over.
Opening the door with a knock she found an empty bed, unmade, a chair at an angle from the desk brimming with notes and papers and stacks of books flowing onto the floor, and an empty room. The low incandescent light, with its cord traveling through the window to the solar battery elsewhere, was the only witness to the scene.

Persephone stood there. Felt the bed. Cold. Turned around.
She checked the bathroom. Pulled back the shower curtains. Nothing.
It wasn’t a big house.
“Anybody home?”
There wasn’t any other places to check in the house. There were dishes in the kitchen sink and discarded food in the garbage. She smelled it before she found where it was coming from. What it was in its former life, she could not tell.
The bathroom was still the small rustic affair with the rolling wood pins where towels hung. 
She turned the faucet and water roused from the well and spurted out. Water still works.

Perplexed, she returned to the bedroom of her grandfather and sat at his desk. He was always a prolific writer and note-taker. His birding habit where he jotted down every bird he had seen each day, where, and how many in his multiplying notebooks had grown into a regular journaling habit of his quotidian life as well. She would often find him up here just scrawling away on loose torn papers. He would only date the birding logs however. The daily journals of his isolated Maine life up here he didn’t date. He always said that if they wanted his opinion they wouldn’t have left him high and dry up without electricity or services in his own country. His journals were more of his own zen meditation exercise. Often he would burn them after writing, even as he wrote them. Crumpled and tossed straight into the flame by his side.

Where was he? Out for a walk? In this rain? Out with the car maybe? He definitely doesn’t have his phone on him. Or have a phone. The guy’s practically Thoreau up here.

These, however, have avoided that particular perdition. Persephone shut the door and began to look through the top layer of the paper detritus that hid a desk below it.
The top note had coordinates circled many times over. Bingo.Certainly somewhere in Maine judging by the decimal degrees.
This must be where he saw the Golden-wingeds. She folded it neatly into her pocket.
She kept digging through the papers. She lifted a massive tome, Ecology of Nova Scotia, acting as a paperweight to uncover another disheveled stack of notes.Many were just ramblings of his day: deer in the garden, rain, sun, rain,sun, car went by, another car, the same car, the same car. Birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birdfood, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds.
Her eyes started to glaze over and started a system. Bird logs here, “journal” entries here.

The wind was picking up outside and the rain turned the world into watercolor.

She took up a random entry and read it:
It is certainly a novel technology and of course it may do some good in the end, but it is essentially irrelevant up here and that means it is irrelevant for the vast majority of mankind especially considering the people yet to come. It will be seen as either the crowning achievement of a peak decadence in culture or literal magic, depending on how far we get.

A novel technology. She put the note aside. And picked up the next.

Of course, they ask me trying to drag me into it but no, I am quite content. Quite content indeed. I think I know quite a thing or two about this place we find ourselves in. They don’t have a clue.

He was always going on about the Remainers in town. Cream of the crap was it?

What don’t they get. They are dealing with forces beyond their reckoning. The human mind isn’t built for this kind of crap. We just don’t have it in us to deal with it. I don’t want any part of it. The talk about the Truth, as if it would help anyone. I’ll be happy for them to just rave in the woods but stay off my property for Pete’s sake.

Huh, revelers in the woods. They must put on some ragers around here. Never really thought about it that way. No police. Anarchist state. I’m surprised that not more people immigrate here. But I guess they keep it pretty off-road…plus no electricity. Maybe they do have some government presence? She looked out the window into the evergreen trees just beyond the strip of overgrown native garden that her grandfathered had her pick weeds from a lifetime ago. Fog rolled down the embankment and gathered in the garden. The light fritzed. She sat. Looking. Wanting to feel something but couldn’t summon it. Where is he? I should feel worried or anxious or distraught. I’ll wait a while longer. I hope that phone works or I’m staying the night here. Charlie doesn’t know to pick me up. The gray monotone did not betray time.

The wooden chair creaked as she leaned back with another note in hand.

They can’t keep coming around here. I don’t have anything. Lunatics.

Settling into bed, paper scrunched beneath her. Pulling the paper from under her back, she settled onto the pillow and read:

I shouldn’t have let them in. Apollo weeps. He is coming.

Turning on her side, she faced the door. Over her head, the rain had stopped whispering static and night had descended. The faint light glowing out into the woods through the windows. Curtainless windows. She laid below them frozen. Creaking wood panels reverberated below, down the stairs. She froze, a pen gripped tight in her fist. 
The light. Her arm made it halfway to its pullcord before retreating back under the horizon of the sill. Keep it on. They could be watching out there right now.

A crashing of plates and hushed scolding came up through the thin walls. Two of them, at least.

She heard footsteps start up the steps, halt. Her eyes lasered through the door to the eyes on the other side. She didn’t breath. An eternity passed punctuated with a bitter wind outside. Whoever, whatever, it was was watching there on the stairwell, watching for movement under the door frame, any shadow playing in the light, just as she had an hour before. Then the steps left. She laid there tensed, white knuckled melded into the pen. Rattling of the window pane broke the ringing in her ears and she didn’t discern any other movement or other noise in the house. It was pitch black out now, cloud cover blocking the crescent moon. 

Slowly, and quietly, slipping down from the low bed she maneuvered the chair against the door. She shuddered at the faint tap of the chair against the door. Crawling to the corner of the room, she curled into a ball of insomnia wrapping her arms around her legs. I’ll have to wait until daybreak. A whip-poor-will started calling, whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Blood-fingered dawn scratched across the eastern sky through the window opposite Persephone. Waking she realized she had abandoned her nightwatch. The chair remained propped against the door. Pen rolled under the bed. She gathered her strength to stand, her leg muscle spasmed sharply and she had pins and needles in her arm. Peering out the window over the driveway, she didn’t see any vehicle or evidence of a vehicle recently. The rain would have washed it away last night. Setting the chair down in front of the desk, she quietly opened the door to an empty hallway. A residual image of the imagined intruder’s head faded into memory. The stairwell directly ahead was unpopulated. 
Had I been dreaming?
She crept down the stairs and slowly looked into the kitchen. Everything was as it was. She made a move to the knife block and grabbed a large one. She opened the pantry and found the remnants of a food she hadn’t seen in years. 
I’m surprisingly not hungry but she convinced herself to scarf it down and continue her search.

I have to check the garage. If I can get a car, I can get out of here then find a phone and call for help.
She slipped out the side door and wound around to the back of the house.
In the early dawn hours the events of last night felt entirely improbable to her.
How long was I looking at those notes for? She felt she had read every single line of the gibberish progressively less legible to her tired eyes. And then there was the sounds.
I wasn’t alone.
She walked along the stone path to the garage door. The evergreen forest looming over her.
It will be good to get out of here. Then I can figure out what’s happened.
Positioning the knife in her hands, she gripped the handle to the wide garage door and lifted up.
The creak of the rusted door grooves was swallowed into the lonesome silence of the leafing woods.
No car.
Inside the garage was an empty space for a car, the concrete a lighter color under its usual spot.  Some shelving of ancient household tools sitting defunct littered the walls.

Stepping out of the garage.
Well, shit. I guess I’m walking. She sat on a log on the edge of the garden. Down the hill, the black tarmac wove through the trees.
If I follow that east I’ll eventually make it back to town. Given the state of the roads up here, walking wouldn’t be much slower.
She finished the remains of the snack bar. Balling up the wrapper and putting it in her pocket.
Finding the pocket was already occupied, she took out the note and relooked at it. Empty except for the coordinates encircled. Where the birds are.
She tried her phone. Still busted from that vernal poolparty…

An unspeaking plane passed high overhead, its trail of vapor tracing the pale blue.
Never thought I’d think that was a novelty.
She had the feeling of being in a different reality, of an entirely remote and inaccessible existence. They can find me, come get me, I left a note, I texted him. But he won’t come. He’d never concede or ask for forgiveness. It’s over. I’m alone now.
Her hands sunk into the cool velvet moss overgrowing the log.

The plane glinted in the sun and reached the edge of the tree canopy. Consumed by nature. That’s where they said she was now. In a better place, up there.
She gripped the moss and tore a piece off. Crumbling it in her hand gently.
The cries of a pair Red-tailed Hawks shattered the budding day. A mated pair. Going about their own routine.
She thought of a lady in the park one day who had come up to her as she was watching the hawks on the church steeple. The lady, seeing her interest in the hawks, used the opportunity to tell her that her late husband had been an avid birdwatcher himself. That she liked to think that he was now one of those hawks looking down on her. Persephone smiled politely at the sentiment and the lady was on her way. But the thought gnawed at her. Why would her husband’s soul take precedence over the hawk’s? The hawk was its own being, independent and autonomous of our human concerns. It struck her as an utter failing of empathy, a failure of human acknowledgement that was the root of the chaotic predicament that the entire globe was now entwined for all foreseeable futures into infinity. And perhaps it was this speciesist failure that was the seed of our problems. The domestication of animals at the dawn of civilization. Civilization’s alienating forces first applied to animals and plant kingdoms and spilling over into human kingdoms and now disrupting our very notions of the human. As the natural order of the world is upturned.

The hawks circled higher calling and diving. This pair was strong, the male had a branch. They would nearly complete building their nest. But he still forged that bond between them stronger.

Just then, a car drove slowly past the driveway. It stopped, reversed, and headed up the drive. A hand out the driver’s window waved but she didn’t recognize the car. She eyed the knife at her boots but sat still. She didn’t wave back.

The car drove up to the garage and parked a few yards away from her log bench. James smiled and stepped out of the car.

“Good morning!” he said.
“Good morning.”
“I was waiting for your call yesterday night and when it didn’t come I figured your phone was dead from your spill yesterday. I’ve been looking all over town but nobody had seen you. You spend the night here?”
“Yep.” she shrugged
“Jeez. Creepy place no?”
“Why do you say that?”
“Oh, just ‘cause nobody’s been up here since…”
“Since?”
“Since Mr. Albrite passed.”
Persephone stood.
“What? What do you mean? He just texted me a few days ago. I hadn’t heard anything. Where is he?”
“He texted...? Oh...I’m sorry. I thought you knew and that’s why you were up here. He passed away about a week ago.”
“That’s not possible. He texted me about the birds 3 days ago. He said he found them.”
“I’m really sorry” he tried to close the distance between them but stopped a half-step into the motion, “it could’ve been some lag...this place has terrible reception as you know.”

“What happened to him?”
James took a breath, “I think he just passed in his sleep. Peacefully. A deliveryman discovered him last week, last Monday it was. He didn’t come to the door. They always had a talk when he came to deliver his ration.”

Persephone paced back and forth. Mind racing. No this doesn’t make any sense.
She walked past him to the garage.
James reached out but put his arms back down. He turned to her as she leaned her arms against the side of the garage, long black hair flowing down over her face.

“I am really sorry Persephone. I should have known, shouldve told you…” he gritted his teeth.
She didn’t turn towards him, “What did you do with him? The body?”

“He’s over at the old cemetery. It was decided that he could be the exception since he kept a list of the birds there for so long.”
“Thirty years.”
“What?”
“He kept bird records at the cemetery for thirty years running. Weekly at least. His lists are all upstairs in his bedroom.” She looked at him, eyes full of tears.
“Hey,...” he motioned, and continued this time towards her, she accepted the hug. And wept long heaving sobs.

He gave her a hug that she leaned into and patted her on the back. Her messy tangled hair in her face as he stood stoic in the mud. She had a certain musk from her long treks and mud and falling in that vernal pool the day before...I guess she never showered or the soap was out upstairs at the hotel..
“Sorry, I’m sorry..it’s not your fault.”
“Shh its OK. I just wanted to come by and see that you were doing OK.” he said.
She nodded, came to her senses, and peeled herself off on him.
She wiped her face. “So...what’s the plan then?”
“I wanted to see if you wanted to join us, the town holds a small bonfire event each spring when the weather warms up, and wanted to see if you wanted to join us.”
“Today?”
“Yea tonight. I can drive you back to the hotel now and we can go together later this evening.”
“I...OK..” She hadn’t any way out of it. I still have to get to those birds. “Actually,” she took the note from her pocket. “Do you think you can take me here? I think this is where my grandfather saw the warblers I was telling you about, the Golden-wingeds.” He handed the note over to him.
He took it and looked at the two numbers, written out to the sixth decimal place.
“Yea I can look it up when we get back to the hotel. It has some computer connection on a sunny day.” He laughed. “Then we can check out it out.”
She nodded, facing away and looking up at the pines where a Blue-gray Gnatcatchers was making squeaky-toy calls. She followed him to the car and they backed away from the house of her youth and old life. Tumbling backwards down the drive she saw the hill rise up the house and felt that she herself, her life’s trajectory was determined by that downward roll, sliding downwards to a pit of which there would be no energy in her left to overcome.

They headed out into the midday sun, a glorious spring day. 