Chapter 1- Migration.
A hazy seawind lifted the leaves gently, a plea to awaken. Gloomy silhouettes stirred not through the still stands of trees, each a shadow in the dark. The shining herald of a new day was humming rhythms long taken for granted. Still over the horizon, it gave but a subterranean glimmer of its arrival. The floating mazes of plants slowly emerged into the world. Gripping hairy vines, wrapped and tethered neighboring trunks together. Epiphytic plants hovered in midair sustained by the near illusion of nutrients. The warm-blooded began first, hoping to find the disabled prey from a more ancient lineage. Easy pickings if found. Poking heads scanned from warm burrows their familiar territory for unfamiliar sights. Encouraged by the peaceful surroundings, small excursions to the nearest log are deemed a safe breakfast strategy. The blind young squirm and nibble the delivered detritus.
And with a ruffle of feathers, quick adjustments to the wing, the canopy joined the commotion of the floor. Hopping from a shaded branch into the first sun rays I surveyed the landscape. The time was getting close but the location was wrong. Nonetheless, the urge was there, primary and unconquerable. In the distance, you hear the music rising over the mists of seaside cliffs and resounding in deep forest valleys. High happy trills and sweet melodies. There were new songs in this strange land. Their singers more practiced, measured. Nearby, you notice your fellow travelers, weary from last night's journey. But this was no day for rest. They summoned their strength and took to finding perches. You sat still and watched a little longer, not yet eager to join. The larger scattering the smaller and less experienced, and taking up position.
You broke the green veil to an unfiltered precipice. The evening chill was dissipating now and sun columns were cutting their slantwise paths through beams of trees. The gray sea was putting on its aquamarine mantle in the cove below. Black gulls rowed in the air, giving raucous greetings. You could see where you landed for the first time. Last night's nocturnal mission seemed to you an act of faith. Deep down you knew it was an inexorable pilgrimage. It wasn't the goading of the group you traveled with that brought me here either. We all felt the same compulsion and distant memories of our childhood flights came back to us, in reverse. As if we were flying back to the heart of things and the beginning of time itself. We were transported to a realm where time meant nothing to us though it was time that brought us there. We were fundamentally alone, each striving forward, beckoned forward to our future by some source distant to us and unknowable. The only focus was your straining muscles filling with lactic acid. Limitless dark expanse bore us ahead, as if we stood still and the world around merely shifted. The alien stars did not move above us and the old moon gave a somber glance.
There were ones who didn't make it. Their call notes stopped coming and we lost contact. They would be soon forgotten, swallowed by the ocean and clawing gravity. The ones who made it to this land survived, we all fell into the trees, clumping together and filling the branches. Sleep took us to a more forgiving blackness.
Back in the light, the shining orb now illuminated the entire landscape in such a way as to give a new meaning to our collective travel. The darkness was gone but you still didn't grasp the conclusion. Why were you here? Daily life gets in the way. Flies fly and you sally forth, pinching them in your beak, crushing their exoskeleton and licking them down your gullet. Energy for the day.
My breast rose with an urge and out stumbled my first song of the day. It shook my entire being and caught me off guard. I regrasped the twig with my black talons, clinging tight in order to give the upright posture demanded of this work. Deep within I felt another spasm fighting its way out my throat. I threw up a buzzy series of notes in rising succession with a falling note as I closed my bill shut. The others were giving their songs nearby but I didn't hear a similar one to my own. Good.
The chorus was growing as the day heated up. Flashings of new plumage were seen breaking through the green density on the hillside. Everybody was thrown into a frenzy of noise and display as the spotlight fell over their staked claims. The other residents of this land now started to move. Did we wake them? They moved on straight lines down below between large, regular felled trees. They now yelled and issued cries as they emerged from their cavities walking towards the beach with long branches. Moving about them were multitudes of large animals, with widely spaced eyes and reflective domes.
Suddenly, a yellow bullet streamed over my crown. Quickly ducking, I spotted my attacker and prepared for his second dive. Tightening my wings I dove into the brush beside my perch as the yellow and gray tyrant caught my twig and proclaimed his victory with aggressive wags of the tail. His black eyes caught mine and told me defeat. I pushed my way downward towards the cove.
Down here was louder, and I knew I still had time and need for buzzing. There was the familiar chatter of the sedentary ones here. Loudly chittering and chirping amongst themselves and on the barren ground between the felled trees with no trunks. I found a dead stick above a rose bush and prepared myself for the calling from within myself. It came through me and I waited. I heard a beeping closeby. It was loud and regular. I tried calling again but couldnt hear myself. The beeping got closer but I could not see its source. Buzzing in my brain there was no response, all I could hear was this same regular beeping. The noise was deafening, the chattering ones, the beeping, the slamming and crashing black masses into a green maw.
This place reminds you of another, perhaps your destination on this journey. It reminds you of where your parents showed you the edges of their territory. Of where there was a clearing away from the underbrush tangle of your home. There was a similar white church set against a calm blue sky and the sun gently rolled across the sky. There was food, and a tree to follow your parents into. There was that fence where we all poked through and that dreadful hawk that tore apart your sister. There was the house where the man with binoculars lived, the far-sighted one, and where he is now waking.
Ch1 Dawn Patrol
Inspiration: Brought to the Water -deafheaven


Footfirst into the alluvial muck, the woman rushed into the water, scarcely swimming but rushing forward as a wildebeest fords a river. A floating yellow figure radiated soundless ripples before her.

Backsplash from the water chilled the spine of Persephone as she rounded the corner and saw her. She lay facedown in the water, brilliantly yellow and soundless. Rushing towards her she threw herself downward and swifted her upwards. Her arms drooped defeated, golden-winged. Lifeless. The third this morning. She examined the lifeless. She was a new arrival from last night, a migrant. The yellow on this individual concerned Persephone. A dreadful wet yellow to which she now had an instinctual aversion. She took his measurements quickly, half-glancing away, upwards, into the sky as she did. People were looking, but they mostly passed by, busied by their own warm-blooded lives. Routine. The shaking woman stood up, slowly approached a park bench, sat.

Placing her in the bag he struggled to zip, sweaty fingers stumbling on the lock, she rose and checked the time. An hour was left before her surgery. Strangely, there was no anxiety bubbling inside of her. Even if it didn’t work properly, it might leave her lobotomized in a certain sense that she wished for. Anything to stop this. Even this bird gives me the chills.

She hoped that was the last for his route. She couldn’t take another one. Not today. Tonight the winds will be weaker so maybe they’ll be less of them. In any case, she isn’t going to volunteer for this shit anymore. Every year the same thing without change. Well, less and less of them I suppose. But every year, the same thing, the takeoff and crashing and dying and tonight the winds will be weaker but that won’t stop them, they’ll fly just the same and crash, fall and crash into the puddles, and sidewalks, and lifeless empty buildings being swallowed by the vengeful sea. Downtown never mounted a comeback, never even given the chance.

It is accelerating. And there’s no stopping it. Why didn’t we stop? Why don’t we? This summer will be worse than the last or could be. But it won’t be better, not for a few thousand years. Perhaps longer. At least Iphy would be spared those unfurling horrors; a dreadful mercy that soaked Persephone with guilt.

Persephone, drenched in sweat already, backpack and cooler in hand, headed towards the park adjacent to the hospital. The sun was inexorably rising over the weary towers of the city.

Why didn’t that man right there stop? Think? Change his habits and control his life, seize his last mortal life and head against the current. The current of streaming commuters pushed past her. Why didn’t I? Why don’t they? He looked at the ducklings following their mother on the lawn, a newly hatched full-sized brood. Not yet predated. Futility. The bulk of the foreign queen-mother swan sat on her nest triumphant over the poorly-managed pond.

Iphy...I must be strong for Mike. The cycle begins anew and I’ll be back better than ever after this surgery. We can connect, I might be able to forgive, to bear this and move forwards. I wonder if they can implant these chips directly into a fetus.

A flash of yellow in the roadside brush ahead of her sparked her curiosity. Looking into the sparse brush with her binoculars, she was able to make out the form of a small flitting warbler. Wilson’s, she muttered to herself. Of course, it had to be yellow. Every spring ‘til the end of time I’ll be remembering. As it should be, she scolded herself while hot execrations boiled beneath her consciousness. Poor Iphy.

She crossed off the street name in her spreadsheet, walked and turned the last block corner on the list.


The first victim of the day. She spotted him from a block away under a truck who unwittingly drove right over the poor, motionless soul and parked. Or maybe they were trying to cover it up, to clean him up later after morning coffee. It’s not brand to have cadavers strewn about company walkways.
Looking to her spreadsheet, she jotted down the date, time, and weather conditions. It was foggy and she was not sure if that helped or hurt, her or him. Glancing skywards the building above disappeared into the gray. Who knows how far this individual must have fallen? Would you fall from a higher height, seeing out above the foggy bank before the fatal moment? It was a tall, modernist monstrosity most likely it held an international bank within its blue-glassed exoskeleton. ECOTRADE.
Looking out from within one could see across the cityscape, over the harbor to the airport, slowly sinking into the sea. It wasn't much used nowadays, the airport that is. The sea was having a small renaissance of commercial ferry traffic as more streets acquiesced to the tides. The banking crowd still made use of the airport for their flights to and fro, conferences on the "SLOW CATASTROPHE" no doubt, as last week's newspaper read on a subway seat this morning.

Approaching the body and kneeling, she looked around but the sidewalks were deserted. There was no blood but she snapped on surgical gloves, more out of respect than fear of disease transmission or even evidence contamination. Nobody took much notice of these cases and they were mostly covered up. Surely, millions of people have lived their entire lives without so much as hearing about this particular tragedy. It was lucky to find a corpse this late in the morning before the cleaning crews came around and tidied their assigned details or predators scurried off with the scraps. 

Quick glances over the shoulder, nobody around. Persephone reached and pulled the body out from under the truck. Still warm. Turning him over in her hands, she could tell that he was a first-year male. His first flight back north was cut short. Cause of death: Head-on collision with a reflection of himself.A glowing orange and black Blackburnian Warbler.

Finding one dead bird usually bodes ill for the rest of the morning. According to last night's radar, the nocturnal migration was very favorable. This meant scores of little bird corpses raining down in the pre-dawn hours as humanity slept far away from their metropolises. All across the Northeast this would be the case. Hundreds, thousands of migrating birds, clustered together by call note, propelled forward by instinct and millennia to their breeding grounds. A black, starry sky with a spring-bringing wind alive with 'chips' and 'tzzts' brought to an abrupt halt by 'ping', 'ping', 'ping'. The immeasurable depths of time carving these patterns into the world. Aeons of flights back and forth from the tropics to the safety and quietude of a thawing continent to the north. Orioles evolving to fly north from the equator, warblers evolving to evade winter's grasp on the boreal forest. How long has this been happening? They can't stop if they wanted to. Time has eroded the possibilities into unbearable instinct, anxiety, zeugenruhe. Called to their ancestral home, they flood the skies. Passenger pigeons darkening the sky for hours, hungrily devouring the sun and casting their shadow on the terrestrial-bound life below.
And then one day these buildings crop up, monuments to a unfathomable hubris. Imagine humanity was eradicated from this planet. How many generations, how many millions of birds would continue to filter down to rest below these gravestones? How many loosed beaks and skulls would it take to break them down, specks of dust eroding desert stones. Toppled cairns.
Cardinal direction of Building Face: SW. Down. Up, the data jotted Persephone continues on the survey route. Just ahead another orange-headed lighthouse beacon sprawled lifeless on concrete cutting through the gray mist. It appeared to fade as the janitor unceremoniously threw it into his bag.

	Birdwatching

**Have a section on birdwatching, universality of the hobby (why she got into it, calm, peace, curiosity,connection with grandfather, etc.) + esotericism of hobby (why makes it special, a secret to share with the reader). Create empathy and sympathy for birds so that readers care about the GWWA. Then shatter this little uplifting part with the little part below:



	Therapy
	*detail some parts of Persephone past. Don’t give the whole event away yet but hint at something tragic. Hint at some consequences, whose fault, guilt, 
Chips

**Set promise that this book will deal with psychic trauma/AI/insanity - have businessmen commuters with chip/neck-tech, have Persephone see a person ‘glitching’ (think he’s homeless? Or a kid that is uploading corrupted software to his chip, like a futuristic drug? Or just sometimes people glitch out for a second and return to normal…?) **I want to end this scene with dozens of dead warblers at the foot of the building...just heaps and heaps. And for her to give up and go to her appointment.

	**It was time to go. She couldn’t live like this anymore, ‘Augs’ be damned. And anyhow she had told them that she’d come this time. Wouldn’t wuss out like last time. That she’d come.  Wouldn’t run. Good, good they said, you’ll be glad you did, it won’t hurt, they said. She could see the building, looming around the city block’s corner. Where one part of her story would end; the fully human part.

She’s resisted for so long. She saw the ‘Augs’ were originally treated. The first ‘Augs’ were the  rich but they couldn’t keep it a secret of course. They were mostly insulated in any case. But the first “common” people to have it done, to go all-in on this new tech were severely outcast. People did not trust them, immediately discounted their personhood. Of course people would occasionally forget who was one or not. It’s that small of an operation. Why don’t I just get it?

But once more and more people got the chip, there became a critical mass of acceptance. And then people needed it. They became necessary for some jobs and mandatory for others.  

When the chips first came out, they came out of nowhere. The government and academia were caught with their pants down. One company then another were coming out with the products. The shriveled apparatus of the far-off state had longed atrophied to the point to where companies themselves were writing the law in their sphere of influence. A.I.-augmented super intelligence was available to be integrated with anybody’s neural network for the right amount of cash. And this wasn’t trivial. The government did try to restrict this technology to the military, themselves. But this was taken as a 2nd amendment issue. The government couldn’t possibly be allowed to hold this monopoly of intelligence. The companies would not let it be wrest from their grasp. And eventually the price came down. New hardware (another A.I. discovery and invention). New competition. People, long-since hypnotized into being good little utilitarian capitalists, bought-in to the massive cyborg project.

The people who took the operation were called ‘Augs’. They had a chip directly implanted into their skull which seamlessly grows into your neurons. This chip is equipped with an algorithm that…

The normies were vastly outcompeted and of course the ‘augs’ got promoted quickly. The tech was just so powerfully useful. Now it is commonplace in every city. Nearly every country. Crime would be at record lows if not for the Normie riots. The ever rising temperature of the world is cranking up discord everywhere. It was expected to be a hot one today. Record. New. Normal.
Persephone walked past a half-empty cafe with the news on. Vermont was under water again. The storm was expected to hit us later in the week. By hell or high water.

Still, even if everyone was cybervolving, she was supremely uncomfortable with it. There are bugs. Glitches. Conspiracies that the government and companies could turn you off at any time after you go under the knife. Every time she goes into the city there is a Bugger on the train. Either caught in a loop or glitching out. They say it’s pleasurable and addicting. That their chip went straight for certain dopamine centers and optimized your thoughts or feelings towards that end. Eventually they gain a sort of control. The companies don’t admit this and say that the people are in full control the whole time but just choose to do that. Or at least not stop it.

She arrived at the Omphalos tower’s steps and took a breath. Anything was better than having to relive her nightmare every day of her life. I’d even trade for another one.