--rewrite with Persephone being the Main Character with A.I. implant.
--following PLOTTING 2 scheme

Overall Themes/Inspiration
Sources/Inspiration:
The Oresteia Trilogy
Bacchae
Nick Land/accelerationism milieu
	Vague Lovecraftian gods influencing from the future teleoplexy
Bataille
The Uninhabitable Earth
Ducks, Newburyport (lioness narrative for inspiration with bird narrative?)
Valhalla Rising (tense eerie shots of woods hiding, lurking things watching from the dark)
                      -being out in the open surrounded by dark woods is the same feel as being around a fire at night, with the oppressive darkness, they can see you but you can’t see them

PURPLE TEXT = AI assisted text. Edit all of it.


MARCUS ANDRONICUS
O, why should nature build so foul a den,
Unless the gods delight in tragedies?

Prologue: Migration
*I want to try this as second-person POV
*Have a little predator, prey hide-and-seek arc
	*has to set nature →  nihilistic tone. So tearing flesh, terror, archaic primal instincts
*And settle into Miami where we then zoom into Persephone on her bird survey before her appointment

A hazy seawind lifted the leaves gently, a plea to awaken. Gloomy silhouettes stirred not through the still stands of trees, each a shadow in the dark. The shining herald of a new day was humming rhythms long taken for granted. Still over the horizon, it gave but a subterranean glimmer of its arrival. The floating mazes of plants slowly emerged into the world. Gripping hairy vines, wrapped and tethered neighboring trunks together. Epiphytic plants hovered in midair sustained by the near illusion of nutrients. The warm-blooded began first, hoping to find the disabled prey from a more ancient lineage. Easy pickings if found. Poking heads scanned from warm burrows their familiar territory for unfamiliar sights. Encouraged by the peaceful surroundings, small excursions to the nearest log are deemed a safe breakfast strategy. The blind young squirm and nibble the delivered detritus.
And with a ruffle of feathers, quick adjustments to the wing, the canopy joined the commotion of the floor. Hopping from a shaded branch into the first sun rays I surveyed the landscape. The time was getting close but the location was wrong. Nonetheless, the urge was there, primary and unconquerable. In the distance, you hear the music rising over the mists of seaside cliffs and resounding in deep forest valleys. High happy trills and sweet melodies. There were new songs in this strange land. Their singers more practiced, measured. Nearby, you notice your fellow travelers, weary from last night's journey. But this was no day for rest. They summoned their strength and took to finding perches. You sat still and watched a little longer, not yet eager to join. The larger scattering the smaller and less experienced, and taking up position.
You broke the green veil to an unfiltered precipice. The evening chill was dissipating now and sun columns were cutting their slantwise paths through beams of trees. The gray sea was putting on its aquamarine mantle in the cove below. Black gulls rowed in the air, giving raucous greetings. You could see where you landed for the first time. Last night's nocturnal mission seemed to you an act of faith. Deep down you knew it was an inexorable pilgrimage. It wasn't the goading of the group you traveled with that brought me here either. We all felt the same compulsion and distant memories of our childhood flights came back to us, in reverse. As if we were flying back to the heart of things and the beginning of time itself. We were transported to a realm where time meant nothing to us though it was time that brought us there. We were fundamentally alone, each striving forward, beckoned forward to our future by some source distant to us and unknowable. The only focus was your straining muscles filling with lactic acid. Limitless dark expanse bore us ahead, as if we stood still and the world around merely shifted. The alien stars did not move above us and the old moon gave a somber glance.
There were ones who didn't make it. Their call notes stopped coming and we lost contact. They would be soon forgotten, swallowed by the ocean and clawing gravity. The ones who made it to this land survived, we all fell into the trees, clumping together and filling the branches. Sleep took us to a more forgiving blackness.
Back in the light, the shining orb now illuminated the entire landscape in such a way as to give a new meaning to our collective travel. The darkness was gone but you still didn't grasp the conclusion. Why were you here? Daily life gets in the way. Flies fly and you sally forth, pinching them in your beak, crushing their exoskeleton and licking them down your gullet. Energy for the day.
My breast rose with an urge and out stumbled my first song of the day. It shook my entire being and caught me off guard. I regrasped the twig with my black talons, clinging tight in order to give the upright posture demanded of this work. Deep within I felt another spasm fighting its way out my throat. I threw up a buzzy series of notes in rising succession with a falling note as I closed my bill shut. The others were giving their songs nearby but I didn't hear a similar one to my own. Good.
The chorus was growing as the day heated up. Flashings of new plumage were seen breaking through the green density on the hillside. Everybody was thrown into a frenzy of noise and display as the spotlight fell over their staked claims. The other residents of this land now started to move. Did we wake them? They moved on straight lines down below between large, regular felled trees. They now yelled and issued cries as they emerged from their cavities walking towards the beach with long branches. Moving about them were multitudes of large animals, with widely spaced eyes and reflective domes.
Suddenly, a yellow bullet streamed over my crown. Quickly ducking, I spotted my attacker and prepared for his second dive. Tightening my wings I dove into the brush beside my perch as the yellow and gray tyrant caught my twig and proclaimed his victory with aggressive wags of the tail. His black eyes caught mine and told me defeat. I pushed my way downward towards the cove.
Down here was louder, and I knew I still had time and need for buzzing. There was the familiar chatter of the sedentary ones here. Loudly chittering and chirping amongst themselves and on the barren ground between the felled trees with no trunks. I found a dead stick above a rose bush and prepared myself for the calling from within myself. It came through me and I waited. I heard a beeping closeby. It was loud and regular. I tried calling again but couldnt hear myself. The beeping got closer but I could not see its source. Buzzing in my brain there was no response, all I could hear was this same regular beeping. The noise was deafening, the chattering ones, the beeping, the slamming and crashing black masses into a green maw.
This place reminds you of another, perhaps your destination on this journey. It reminds you of where your parents showed you the edges of their territory. Of where there was a clearing away from the underbrush tangle of your home. There was a similar white church set against a calm blue sky and the sun gently rolled across the sky. There was food, and a tree to follow your parents into. There was that fence where we all poked through and that dreadful hawk that tore apart your sister. There was the house where the man with binoculars lived, the far-sighted one, and where he is now waking.
Ch1 Dawn Patrol
Inspiration: Brought to the Water -deafheaven


Footfirst into the alluvial muck, the woman rushed into the water, scarcely swimming but rushing forward as a wildebeest fords a river. A floating yellow figure radiated soundless ripples before her.

Backsplash from the water chilled the spine of Persephone as she rounded the corner and saw her. She lay facedown in the water, brilliantly yellow and soundless. Rushing towards her she threw herself downward and swifted her upwards. Her arms drooped defeated, golden-winged. Lifeless. The third this morning. She examined the lifeless. She was a new arrival from last night, a migrant. The yellow on this individual concerned Persephone. A dreadful wet yellow to which she now had an instinctual aversion. She took his measurements quickly, half-glancing away, upwards, into the sky as she did. People were looking, but they mostly passed by, busied by their own warm-blooded lives. Routine. The shaking woman stood up, slowly approached a park bench, sat.

Placing her in the bag he struggled to zip, sweaty fingers stumbling on the lock, she rose and checked the time. An hour was left before her surgery. Strangely, there was no anxiety bubbling inside of her. Even if it didn’t work properly, it might leave her lobotomized in a certain sense that she wished for. Anything to stop this. Even this bird gives me the chills.

She hoped that was the last for his route. She couldn’t take another one. Not today. Tonight the winds will be weaker so maybe they’ll be less of them. In any case, she isn’t going to volunteer for this shit anymore. Every year the same thing without change. Well, less and less of them I suppose. But every year, the same thing, the takeoff and crashing and dying and tonight the winds will be weaker but that won’t stop them, they’ll fly just the same and crash, fall and crash into the puddles, and sidewalks, and lifeless empty buildings being swallowed by the vengeful sea. Downtown never mounted a comeback, never even given the chance.

It is accelerating. And there’s no stopping it. Why didn’t we stop? Why don’t we? This summer will be worse than the last or could be. But it won’t be better, not for a few thousand years. Perhaps longer. At least Iphy would be spared those unfurling horrors; a dreadful mercy that soaked Persephone with guilt.

Persephone, drenched in sweat already, backpack and cooler in hand, headed towards the park adjacent to the hospital. The sun was inexorably rising over the weary towers of the city.

Why didn’t that man right there stop? Think? Change his habits and control his life, seize his last mortal life and head against the current. The current of streaming commuters pushed past her. Why didn’t I? Why don’t they? He looked at the ducklings following their mother on the lawn, a newly hatched full-sized brood. Not yet predated. Futility. The bulk of the foreign queen-mother swan sat on her nest triumphant over the poorly-managed pond.

Iphy...I must be strong for Mike. The cycle begins anew and I’ll be back better than ever after this surgery. We can connect, I might be able to forgive, to bear this and move forwards. I wonder if they can implant these chips directly into a fetus.

A flash of yellow in the roadside brush ahead of her sparked her curiosity. Looking into the sparse brush with her binoculars, she was able to make out the form of a small flitting warbler. Wilson’s, she muttered to herself. Of course, it had to be yellow. Every spring ‘til the end of time I’ll be remembering. As it should be, she scolded herself while hot execrations boiled beneath her consciousness. Poor Iphy.

She crossed off the street name in her spreadsheet, walked and turned the last block corner on the list.


The first victim of the day. She spotted him from a block away under a truck who unwittingly drove right over the poor, motionless soul and parked. Or maybe they were trying to cover it up, to clean him up later after morning coffee. It’s not brand to have cadavers strewn about company walkways.
Looking to her spreadsheet, she jotted down the date, time, and weather conditions. It was foggy and she was not sure if that helped or hurt, her or him. Glancing skywards the building above disappeared into the gray. Who knows how far this individual must have fallen? Would you fall from a higher height, seeing out above the foggy bank before the fatal moment? It was a tall, modernist monstrosity most likely it held an international bank within its blue-glassed exoskeleton. ECOTRADE.
Looking out from within one could see across the cityscape, over the harbor to the airport, slowly sinking into the sea. It wasn't much used nowadays, the airport that is. The sea was having a small renaissance of commercial ferry traffic as more streets acquiesced to the tides. The banking crowd still made use of the airport for their flights to and fro, conferences on the "SLOW CATASTROPHE" no doubt, as last week's newspaper read on a subway seat this morning.

Approaching the body and kneeling, she looked around but the sidewalks were deserted. There was no blood but she snapped on surgical gloves, more out of respect than fear of disease transmission or even evidence contamination. Nobody took much notice of these cases and they were mostly covered up. Surely, millions of people have lived their entire lives without so much as hearing about this particular tragedy. It was lucky to find a corpse this late in the morning before the cleaning crews came around and tidied their assigned details or predators scurried off with the scraps. 

Quick glances over the shoulder, nobody around. Persephone reached and pulled the body out from under the truck. Still warm. Turning him over in her hands, she could tell that he was a first-year male. His first flight back north was cut short. Cause of death: Head-on collision with a reflection of himself.A glowing orange and black Blackburnian Warbler.

Finding one dead bird usually bodes ill for the rest of the morning. According to last night's radar, the nocturnal migration was very favorable. This meant scores of little bird corpses raining down in the pre-dawn hours as humanity slept far away from their metropolises. All across the Northeast this would be the case. Hundreds, thousands of migrating birds, clustered together by call note, propelled forward by instinct and millennia to their breeding grounds. A black, starry sky with a spring-bringing wind alive with 'chips' and 'tzzts' brought to an abrupt halt by 'ping', 'ping', 'ping'. The immeasurable depths of time carving these patterns into the world. Aeons of flights back and forth from the tropics to the safety and quietude of a thawing continent to the north. Orioles evolving to fly north from the equator, warblers evolving to evade winter's grasp on the boreal forest. How long has this been happening? They can't stop if they wanted to. Time has eroded the possibilities into unbearable instinct, anxiety, zeugenruhe. Called to their ancestral home, they flood the skies. Passenger pigeons darkening the sky for hours, hungrily devouring the sun and casting their shadow on the terrestrial-bound life below.
And then one day these buildings crop up, monuments to a unfathomable hubris. Imagine humanity was eradicated from this planet. How many generations, how many millions of birds would continue to filter down to rest below these gravestones? How many loosed beaks and skulls would it take to break them down, specks of dust eroding desert stones. Toppled cairns.
Cardinal direction of Building Face: SW. Down. Up, the data jotted Persephone continues on the survey route. Just ahead another orange-headed lighthouse beacon sprawled lifeless on concrete cutting through the gray mist. It appeared to fade as the janitor unceremoniously threw it into his bag.

	Birdwatching

**Have a section on birdwatching, universality of the hobby (why she got into it, calm, peace, curiosity,connection with grandfather, etc.) + esotericism of hobby (why makes it special, a secret to share with the reader). Create empathy and sympathy for birds so that readers care about the GWWA. Then shatter this little uplifting part with the little part below:



	Therapy
	*detail some parts of Persephone past. Don’t give the whole event away yet but hint at something tragic. Hint at some consequences, whose fault, guilt, 
Chips

**Set promise that this book will deal with psychic trauma/AI/insanity - have businessmen commuters with chip/neck-tech, have Persephone see a person ‘glitching’ (think he’s homeless? Or a kid that is uploading corrupted software to his chip, like a futuristic drug? Or just sometimes people glitch out for a second and return to normal…?) **I want to end this scene with dozens of dead warblers at the foot of the building...just heaps and heaps. And for her to give up and go to her appointment.

	**It was time to go. She couldn’t live like this anymore, ‘Augs’ be damned. And anyhow she had told them that she’d come this time. Wouldn’t wuss out like last time. That she’d come.  Wouldn’t run. Good, good they said, you’ll be glad you did, it won’t hurt, they said. She could see the building, looming around the city block’s corner. Where one part of her story would end; the fully human part.

She’s resisted for so long. She saw the ‘Augs’ were originally treated. The first ‘Augs’ were the  rich but they couldn’t keep it a secret of course. They were mostly insulated in any case. But the first “common” people to have it done, to go all-in on this new tech were severely outcast. People did not trust them, immediately discounted their personhood. Of course people would occasionally forget who was one or not. It’s that small of an operation. Why don’t I just get it?

But once more and more people got the chip, there became a critical mass of acceptance. And then people needed it. They became necessary for some jobs and mandatory for others.  

When the chips first came out, they came out of nowhere. The government and academia were caught with their pants down. One company then another were coming out with the products. The shriveled apparatus of the far-off state had longed atrophied to the point to where companies themselves were writing the law in their sphere of influence. A.I.-augmented super intelligence was available to be integrated with anybody’s neural network for the right amount of cash. And this wasn’t trivial. The government did try to restrict this technology to the military, themselves. But this was taken as a 2nd amendment issue. The government couldn’t possibly be allowed to hold this monopoly of intelligence. The companies would not let it be wrest from their grasp. And eventually the price came down. New hardware (another A.I. discovery and invention). New competition. People, long-since hypnotized into being good little utilitarian capitalists, bought-in to the massive cyborg project.

The people who took the operation were called ‘Augs’. They had a chip directly implanted into their skull which seamlessly grows into your neurons. This chip is equipped with an algorithm that…

The normies were vastly outcompeted and of course the ‘augs’ got promoted quickly. The tech was just so powerfully useful. Now it is commonplace in every city. Nearly every country. Crime would be at record lows if not for the Normie riots. The ever rising temperature of the world is cranking up discord everywhere. It was expected to be a hot one today. Record. New. Normal.
Persephone walked past a half-empty cafe with the news on. Vermont was under water again. The storm was expected to hit us later in the week. By hell or high water.

Still, even if everyone was cybervolving, she was supremely uncomfortable with it. There are bugs. Glitches. Conspiracies that the government and companies could turn you off at any time after you go under the knife. Every time she goes into the city there is a Bugger on the train. Either caught in a loop or glitching out. They say it’s pleasurable and addicting. That their chip went straight for certain dopamine centers and optimized your thoughts or feelings towards that end. Eventually they gain a sort of control. The companies don’t admit this and say that the people are in full control the whole time but just choose to do that. Or at least not stop it.

She arrived at the Omphalos tower’s steps and took a breath. Anything was better than having to relive her nightmare every day of her life. I’d even trade for another one.





Ch2 Omphalos

*in city for AI chip implant surgery to regulate emotions and help thinking
  -exposition on how it works
  -has access to military grade AI
  -brownout during surgery causes chip to eventually malfunction
  -doctors urge her to stay to recalibrate, but she has had enough

--It was time now. He moved warily into the office and sat after registering his attendance online and signing the NDA (sworn to secrecy as it were). The white walls sweat despite the faltering AC. A lone screen displayed the awaited countdown for the Ares II launch. Mike thought of the arriving migrants to Florida’s shores last night. 

The surgeon will see you now. Mike floated to the bench within the clandestine temple. After a brief examination, simple queries and measurements, Mike found a precise 2x2cm patch of hair on his head being shaved by a nurse jacked up on caffeine.

I can’t believe it’s taken you this long to get one of these. You’re lucky because this is one of the most recent models. I plan on upgrading myself, mine is second-gen. Ya know, I know you won’t regret it. 

So what? I’ll see cartoons or something?
No it’s more like having an intuition and being right about it. Or seeing a math problem and knowing the answer right away. But almost immediately. It kinda fades into the background. I’ve had mine for years already so I can’t really remember what it’s like at first. I’m definitely in need of a hardware upgrade though.
This guy, ‘she tapped the chip calibrating’, is like next-gen. Not even simple computation stuff but like EX1 and EX2. It really gives you an edge. I’m surprised they aren’t requiring for certain stuff yet.

OK, for this next part you have to wear this. She adjusted a VR system to his face, strapped in both sides and gave him a friendly bump to make sure it fit. His head bounced back, nodding the white hood up and down.

We have to get a reading on certain stimuli to make fine-adjustments to certain functions, a few billion parameters, synchronize the gradient descent line, etc.

A word of WARNING!!!
This might be an unpleasant experience. In order to synchronize the chip to your brain waves we have to simulate external visual phenomena. And in order to get the AI to best synchronize with you, we have to index through the full range of things you may encounter in the world including but not limited to bodily harm, mutilation, sexual assault, traffic accidents, building collapses, natural disasters of every sort, spontaneous accidents of every kind, etc. etc.

Lord help those developers…
Well they had an AI construct these images. Most are still or faintly moving, they flicker in and out in milliseconds so there’s little impact on your conscious mind but the chip can read the gamma waves of brain in the split second you “see” them. Overall the procedure should take two minutes. In any case, the majority of the images are pleasant from what I’m told. I honestly don’t remember from the last time I had it done to me.

The nurse beside him gave a glance, as she calibrated the chip with his specific brainwave patterns as he watched the screen before him. The images showed the most varied of visual imagery. Flowers and puppy dogs frolicking coincided with the worst human atrocities, no detail left unseen. Still more eerie video of labyrinthine mazes created with the sole purpose to induce claustrophobia and panic. Crawling centipedes were added as a measure of course. Children. Then a flurried rapid-fire of images at a FPS so fast as to render any one of them indiscernible in the moment. The AI catches it all though.

Awful stuff. But necessary to calibrate the chip to your specific thought-waves prior to implantation. This speeds up the integration process and makes it as seamless as possible.You don’t want to run into an Outlier in the wild.

An Outlier?

Yea they never detail it in the documentation but I’ve heard stories…


Nurses, doctors, they like to gossip. Outliers are cases where the AI can't figure out a response to a certain stimulus. Some stimuli are so far removed from your regular brainwave patterns that the AI doesn't know what to do. Most of the time, it can just apply the algorithms it learned during the calibration stage, but there are rare exceptions.

And what happens then?

The nurse hesitated, then decided to plunge ahead. No use scaring the man now, but best to be honest.

Well, the Outlier cases can be... problematic. You might experience an unexpected reaction, like extreme anxiety or anger. Worst case scenario, the AI might completely shut down as a safety measure, which could leave you incapacitated or disoriented, depending on the extent of your reliance on the implant at the time.

So, we make sure we run the gamut of possible stimuli during calibration. It's not pleasant, but it's important. Just remember, it's just the VR. None of it's real.

He took a deep breath, nodding as he braced himself for the next wave of images. The more his brain experienced now, the more prepared he'd be for the real world with his new AI companion. It was a daunting task, but he knew he was ready. He had to be.

The nurse, with a reassuring pat on his shoulder, left the room, giving him privacy to experience the wild assortment of imagery without interruption. The white walls of the room dimmed to a subtle shade of grey, allowing the colors from the VR headset to become more vibrant, more real.

Suddenly, a fierce roaring of a lion came from nowhere, its muscular body leaping towards him, claws outstretched and jaws wide open. He flinched but remembered it was just a projection. Then came a tranquil scene of a stream trickling over pebbles, the cool water seeming to soothe his startled nerves. He was jerked from the calm by a sudden thunderstorm, heavy rain beating on his head, thunder booming in his ears, flashes of lightning so real he could almost smell the ozone.

Each image, each scenario brought out a different reaction, a unique pattern of neural activity. The AI chip was learning, adapting, tuning its algorithms to best support him. It was not just about reacting to stimuli, but also about predicting and preparing for potential situations based on his responses. It was a dance, a harmonization of man and machine.

Hours passed, each one filled with hundreds of these experiences. His emotions ranged from serenity to terror, from rage to bliss, and everything in between. Each emotion, each response was meticulously recorded, analyzed, and used to fine-tune the chip's understanding of him.

Finally, the VR headset lifted, the room returning to its bright white shade. He blinked against the sudden light, feeling like he'd been through a marathon.

"You did great," the nurse announced, stepping back into the room. "Now, it's all about the AI adapting in real time. Remember, if you experience something unusual, don't hesitate to reach out to us. It's still learning, still syncing. But from the initial reports, it's going well."

He nodded, feeling a strange sense of anticipation mixed with fear. The future was uncertain, but he was ready to face it, armed with his new AI companion. As he left the office, stepping out into the world felt like stepping into a new life.


The VR headset started up with a faint whirr. A flap within its interior extended and tightened around her eyes. Persephone noticed she could no longer close his eyes. Two minutes they said..

A brief diagnostic screen came on for 5 seconds. ((AI chip Company name)) Then the images started flowing. It was a waterfall of images flying by at a pace that was bewildering. 1000x sped up, just a mash of colors. Of course the chip within him was already reading and editing itself to adjust to her subtle perceptions and reactions. Her eyes started to tear as this light show went on. She couldn’t make out any single image but flashes of colors without any order to them.

There was no timer and the effect soon became hallucinatory. Trapped in all-whirling light without blinking, a foreign intelligence soaking up her parameter weights as it learned. White light became a white fence in front of a house. Red became blood spilling from a raw steak. The images were becoming intelligible. Impossibly intelligible. They did not slow. Their pace kept steady as she gazed on, bombarded.


give me an extensive, exhaustive list of visual stimuli that are horrifying to encounter. list them in a big james joyce style list
ChatGPT
Here's an extensive list of potentially distressing visual stimuli, taking a page from James Joyce's fondness for expressive language and vivid, intricate detail:

A writhing mass of venomous serpents in a pit, fangs bared, tongues flickering out; a sprawling spider web home to an oversized, hairy tarantula; decaying corpses left to rot in an abandoned graveyard; the glare of a predator's eyes in the pitch black of night; the flickering silhouette of a person where none should be; gnarled tree roots bursting through a crumbling sidewalk, like nature reclaiming its place; a looming, derelict asylum under a stormy sky; a desolate wasteland, devoid of any life, stretching to the horizon; a meat hook, rusted and crimson stained, hanging ominously in a dingy basement; a haunting doll with an unnerving grin and glassy, empty eyes; a plague of locusts descending upon a once verdant crop; faces distorted in agonizing screams trapped behind a thick, impenetrable glass; a glistening slick of oil spreading across the pristine surface of a crystal clear lake; hundreds of tiny, sharp teeth revealed as a deep sea creature lunges from the darkness; a once familiar cityscape transformed into a dystopian ruin; a crowd of faceless figures, standing perfectly still in eerie silence; the gutted carcass of an animal, abandoned by a predatory feast; the pallid face of a ghostly child peering out from the window of an abandoned house; an echoing stairwell leading down into the unknown depths; a field of stone statues, faces locked in eternal terror; the sudden, discordant movement of a shadow where no shadow should be; the gaping maw of a sinkhole swallowing a house whole; the sight of your own reflection, distorted and unrecognizable; a wave of hair just below the surface of the water as the drowned’s face turns upwards; a sea of reaching, skeletal hands bursting from the earth; an apocalyptic horizon lit by the glow of nuclear winter.




User
Now write a list of pleasant experiences.
ChatGPT
In a stream-of-consciousness style similar to Joyce, here's an extensive list of delightful visual experiences:

A dappled sunrise breaking over a tranquil sea, its orange hues casting a magical glow; fields of wildflowers in full bloom, dancing in a warm summer breeze; a baby's first wide-eyed wonder at a floating soap bubble; an autumn forest ablaze in gold, orange and crimson; the wink of a thousand stars in a velvety night sky; snow-capped mountains rising majestically over a peaceful valley; a blanket of fresh, untouched snow glittering under the moonlight; a flock of vibrant birds taking flight against a cerulean backdrop; the shimmering curtain of the Northern Lights unfolding across the Arctic sky; a meandering river flowing through a verdant meadow; a robust oak tree offering shade on a hot summer day; dewdrops glistening on a spiderweb, refracting the morning sun; a lone cherry tree in full blossom, a soft rain of petals with each gust of wind; a perfectly sculpted sandcastle, just inches away from the lapping tide; the kaleidoscope of colors in a bustling farmer's market; the flutter of a butterfly landing delicately on a blooming flower; the heartwarming sight of a puppy exploring its new home; a magnificent waterfall cascading into a tranquil pool; the touch of a lover's hand, reaching out for yours; the mesmerizing swirl of leaves caught in an autumn gust; a rainbow arching across the sky after a spring shower; a child's joyous laughter as they dash through a water sprinkler; the graceful arc of a dolphin breaching the ocean surface; an aged, well-loved book, its pages yellowed by time; the sight of your own reflection, happy and content.






User
Now write a list of pleasant experience slowing being interspersed with horrifying experiences until the end is all horrifying things.
ChatGPT
In a stream-of-consciousness style reminiscent of Joyce, here's a list of pleasant experiences slowly transitioning into horrifying ones:

A soft sunlit afternoon in a flower-strewn meadow, bees lazily floating from blossom to blossom, the distant hum of a lawnmower turning into a chainsaw's teeth gnawing at a wooden trunk. A bustling farmer's market, a cornucopia of bright fruits and vegetables, the sweet scent of ripe peaches blending with a faint, sickly sweetness of rotting produce forgotten. The laughter of children chasing bubbles, the joyous squeals morphing into shrieks as a menacing shadow lurches from the darkness.

An elegant snowfall against the glow of streetlamps, individual flakes caught in a dance, the scene becoming a blizzard, a world swallowed by unending white. A tranquil forest path, verdant and dappled with sunlight, the trail narrowing, branches becoming skeletal hands that scratch and claw. A library filled with the musk of old books, silence echoing between the shelves, whispers of a ghost story turning into wails of spirits trapped within the pages.

The comfort of a favorite childhood blanket, its soft fabric turned coarse and crawling with unseen insects. A serene pond reflecting a perfect summer sky, its smooth surface bubbling as something massive stirs beneath. A warm, crackling fireplace, the room too hot, the flames dancing higher, a room engulfed. A hummingbird hovering by a bright flower, wings beating too fast, blurring into a plague of locusts descending upon the once idyllic scene.

A lullaby gently lulling a child to sleep, the tune warping, discordant notes hanging in the air like sinister warnings. The marvel of a bustling aquarium, the awe turning into horror as the glass cracks, water gushing out, predatory sea creatures unleashed. The wonder of an ancient castle, its once majestic stone walls crumbling, revealing a tortured dungeon. A lovingly prepared feast on a dining table, the food rotten, maggots writhing in a dish of putrid meat.

A peaceful autumn evening, leaves falling gently, the wind howling through bare branches, the forest now a spectral army of the dead. A mirror reflecting a happy, smiling face, the reflection twisting, distorting into a nightmarish visage. The anticipation of opening a beloved, gift-wrapped present, the box empty, save for a pulsating, grotesque heart. And finally, a silent winter night, a moment of serene beauty turned desolate, cold, a world devoid of life, enveloped in a perpetual, haunting darkness.





And suddenly, it went all black inside the room. Ah shit, not again said the doctor. Persephone sat waiting, naked brain on cold dark metal. There was a moment of patient breath-holding as the nurse drummed her fingers on the keyboard.

A standing movement upwards was halted as the lights snapped back on.
Jesus, how do they expect anybody to get anything done like this? What is that, the third brownout this week?
The second, the nurse shrugged her shoulders as the computer rebooted and brought the calibrating program back up.
They are going to Mars but they haven’t sorted out the electrical grid. Unbelievable!

Uhhh, will this affect anything…?

No, no. The earlier results are saved. We were pretty much finished anyway. The doctor, pacing back and forth from the room. I’ll be right back.

All set, the nurse confirming the calibration of the chip, shouting down the hall. Stopping the surgeon’s tracks.

Snapping on gloves: OK let’s get this done before another surprise. This will be a simple procedure. A local anesthetic will be applied to this area here. He poked hard into the shaved opening with his gloved finger and then we will insert the Omphalos through to your brain. The beauty of it is that the brain will incorporate the device naturally over time as neural connections are made. Eventually you won’t even have to think about it.

Wait, you’re not knocking me out for this?

You’ll be awake the whole time, just like how the Egyptians did it, mouth smiling and grimacing eyes. Let’s begin.
Mike leaned his head back with reverent coolness. Giving his one lone consciousness a goodbye. Or he wondered always, if it truly was just one. Or not a thousand and one? Or a daily recycling and variation on a theme.
The doctor stole the silver-headed staff from his worktray and pried off a chunk of skull after some aggressive chiseling. A biting gnawing frost radiated from the patch at the back of Mike’s skull. He winced but the restraints held him still. After revealing the living brain (living wood) beneath, the Omphalos chip was carefully inserted into the region.

Given the OK, Mike raised his head and reactively reached for the back of his head. The nurse grabbed his arm to stop him.

Uh uh, the doctor said. There’s that reflex. No it’s not an itch, he patted Mike on his crooked shoulder. Welcome to post-humanity Buddy.

Now, you will want to follow this prescription for the next few days as the chip takes to seed. As they say. Be sure to follow this exactly and you should be seeing benefits to your mood as detailed by your therapist. Of course, go back for the next few weeks to her appointments but you will be surprised at how effective these devices are at ‘re-aligning’ our moods.

The nurse held the door open to him to the fluorescent hallway. Mike gave a handshake to the doctor and broached the portal, dimly aware of an oncoming headache as his anathestic faded.

--Oh, and don’t forget about the check-in next week. It’s crucial to get an assessment of how you're doing so that we can introduce the proper subroutines into the chip. Otherwise, you just won’t get the most out of it.

Mike, nodded. The silhouetted doctor closed the door with a slam. Crystals of pain illuminated in the patient’s head, asynchronous with the buzzing LEDs above. The last gasp of artificial cool air followed him out into the scorching blinding light of the outside. His eyes adjusted quick enough to catch that it was exactly 11:03am EST. Workers were shuffling back into buildings as news of power being restored spread.



Ch3 Back to Apartment*
*Goes back to her alone apartment, hurricane incoming, and receives report of Golden-winged Warbler on territory up in Maine 
	-starts feeling the effects of A.I. implant, and skips through the manual Learning to Live with Omphalic Sight
  -she skips out on seeing her husband celebrate at the AresX launch (he is an engineer!)


Persephone crashed onto her sanctuary away from the news of the launch. She had intentionally skipped the event. Days earlier, Mike had reached out hoping to open communication lines to her but she had refused to answer the message. She was still simmering with rage, absolute seething hatred and a grief that ripped her soul apart into a frenzy whenever she thought of her husband. He is lucky I didn’t kill him right then and there. 

She noticed the messages on her phone from the lawyers. But they didn’t know the horrible truth. That he was the one that took her daughter from her. That his negligence and incompetence was the answer that her brightest star had now faded and her lifeless existence now hung cold pale, shrouded. 

My head is killing me, she thought. She staggered to the bathroom for painkillers, thought twice, and took the prescribed dose. This chip bullshit might work eventually. A grim figure reflected her sunken eyes back to her while the invisible knot in her brainstem pulsed. Slamming the cabinet door, she returned to the living room and shut off the lights.

The television here too conspired against her. Every channel was showing the historic launch from the moon. She switched it off. She tried to close her eyes for sleep’s relief but red shards shattered behind her eyelids. Twisting and writhing in pain she decided to focus on other things until the meds kicked in.

 Getting on to her computer she decided to focus on her work. Opening up the observational database for bird sightings across North America she noticed the sharp increase in wood warbler reports across the Gulf states as expected. A few early reports of Prothonotary and Hooded Warblers streamed in across Mid-Atlantic and even the Canadian maritimes. Early was subjective as decade by decade the timing of migrations trended backwards. Still no reports of her subject, Vermivora chrysoptera.

It was once abundant across the eastern United States in the spring and summer as males set up territories in shrubby wetland habitats adjacent to mature forests. Their gleaming golden cap and black mask made them easy to identify as well as their namesake golden wing panel. However, the forces of human development had forced this bird’s population into a steep decline starting in the late 20th century. It faced threats on its breeding territory as well as its wintering habitat in Central and South America, now rapidly developed with little to no shade forest for migratory birds to survive in. A deadly pincer eating away at the species survival. Additionally, the Blue-winged Warbler was interbreeding with ‘pure’ Golden-wingeds creating viable hybrids which outnumbered the ‘pure’ birds. Now, in the middle of the next century, the bird was functionally extinct and its unique genetic material gone. For the past two years, not a single report had been found to be credible anywhere in the world.

Persephone looked up at her wall where the photos of the last few pairs of the birds she worked with hung. She had studied the one pair for two consecutive seasons in New York while the others she only had a single season with in Michigan and Quebec. The Quebec site she fondly remembered. Iphi was still a toddler then playing in the dappled sunlit fields next to the site where she would take her along as she studying the breeding birds. Thinking back, the Quebec site had been an idyllic time for the family. Mike would drop off Iphy would go to preschool with the Quebecoies and learn little French words. Come home babbling “Oui messours” and “x”.

In the Canadian countryside, Persephone would go on to write her doctoral thesis on the Golden-winged territorial defense of habitat against encroaching Blue-wingeds. The multiple seasons allowed for her to detail the interactions. The old couple who discovered the birds lived down the road and the old man, Alfred, would often come bumbling through the undergrowth behind her to see how ‘his’ birds were getting along. Many hours were spent in the cold spring time under budding branches studying the birds' habitats. She would come home to Mike with a lovely brunch of pancakes and fresh fruit.

Summer would bring about its warmth and for a week or two the heat would be welcome before it developed into an almost intolerable swamp inside her full mosquito net suit. But those things weren’t what Persephone now remembered. It was Iphy, her little plump smiling face covered in syrup and rolling around in the grass outside. They were lucky to also avoid the relative turmoil in the States at that time. 

Brrzztttt
A flash of blue vibration interrupted her reverie and she instinctively picked up her phone, a second before she realized she didn’t want to.
Check out Maine
It was from her old supervisor, Larry. She recognized the impulse in her to check the other texts and voicemails on her phone but stopped it. Today was hard enough.
Quizzically, Persephone thought for a second, Maine? 
Then it dawned on her to search the bird observations of Maine.
There it was 1 record of a Golden-winged reported in X county.
Persephone took another bite of her pizza, wiping her hand on her pants as she clicked the link, skeptically slow. Many reports have been either straight up hoaxes for attention or hybrids in the past.
THe observation showed a breeding plumaged male, unequivocally.
Mary Fitchburg. Coordinates Obscured, Maine. 
MEGA. This breeding pair of GWWA was found on private property. See photo for characteristics distinguishing from all known hybrids and backcrosses. The female was seen briefly but it did not share the yellowness associated with female BWWA. Please alert the relevant authorities and do no make remove the private filter on this observation for fear of disturbing the birds with undue stress from MOB.

Persephone sat awestruck for a second, head in hands fingers massaging her temples. She then ran a reverse image search of the photo. It returned no hits. It was real.

Should I go and see these birds? They could be the last true pair of a doomed species. Doomed just like how she felt here, all family gone and adrift and at the mercy of the Atlantic’s deathrattle. The pull of responsibility overtook her and she reasoned it would be good to get her mind off things. 
Do you know where they are?

The hurricane broadcast shone red from the television set, announcing an intensification of Hurricane Aliyah to a Category 2. It was settled.

The phone answered, Yes.

WIth a ticket booked for Boston next morning, she packed her bags and grabbed a photo of Iphy from the wall.




Ch4 Psychopomp
*Flies up to Boston, drives up to Maine
  -instead of human flight, have bird migration metaphor for her travels
  -AI pathways connecting during her sleep
  -psychopomp theme, orange sunset drive into black forests
  -thinking back to her grandfather’s house in Maine, growing up, stone laboratory and secret passageways, macabre art
--noticing a truck is tailing her, one of those supply trucks, she pulls over to gas station quietly frantic. She suspects her AI chip could be GPS-enabled...and notices that her chip is equilibria lizing her emotions, she ‘senses’ her real feeling of panic beneath the modulated emotional response of the chip
--run out of gas, pull into gas station but they haven’t had gas in years just snacks, Charon offers ride to nearby town as sun sets. Persephone accepts and jumps in.

Strong southwest winds lifted the plane into the air. Persephone had settled into her window seat next to a hooded teenager. Persephone settled into her seat as the hooded teenager beside her plopped back down and crossed his arms, bobbing his head to death metal.

 Tonight, migration across the southern United States would ignite radars as millions of birds took to the sky following ancient flightways to ancestral homes. Persephone looked out the window at the gathering darkness as the plane itself prepped for takeoff down the runway. Its engine’s hum enshrouding the cabin and offering respite from the individuating cacophony of other passengers. The shimmering shells of houses and towers floated down to a purple sea, retreated to infinity. Persephone couched her pounding head against the glass and willed herself to sleep.

-------------
The sinking of Apollo’s golden chariot sank into the west signalled to the anxious crowds to ascend. The winds bore them aloft into time immemorial. A single moment of eternity as they replayed the drama of a millennia of evolution, an ounce of difference between they and their parents and their parent’s parents echoing back and back into the future. Favorable winds. They were the favored ones, feathered. In this cycle of regeneration, they bore the spring along with them north over the darkened tumultuous sea and the inky black forests when giant behemoths and groundsloths slouched towards an older Jerusalem. They flew up and called out. Hearing their thousand cries echoed back to them by the others joined in their flight. They formed a greater whole in the night, beyond sight before the frenzied light would furnish them with a territorial aggression. Dionysiac impulses drove, whipped into a frenzied rush. Rushing onwards into the window of dark allowed them. Back to their nests once hatched and fed to renew the cycle, to bring life out of life and dance on the mountainous ravine or the shaded glen.

Mile-high glaciers had retreated, melted into time and the great boreal forests grew where they once stood. An immobility, triumphant flags of life planted. Yet these same impulsions remained, out of time and space they replicated and maintained their steadfast grasp over the multitudinous forms that swam, crawled, leapt, flew, and paced the globe. 

But still the birds flew on, pushed by winds and pulled by libidinal forces beyond our comprehension. An anxiety streaming forth out each muscle and feather, transforming their bodies into a prayer for the mystery of life. And this force would proliferate into the next generation, to renew itself and filter down through species and aeons.
Humanity too feels this same drawing-on, onwards to the black unknown whenceforth its calling comes. Even now we prepare a mission to outer worlds and inner spaces, listening for the call ignorantly heeded.
And she flew among them now. Returning once more to an ancestral homeland under stranger stars closer than ever.

---------------

Boston thought of itself as a bastion. A bastion of technology, of progress, and especially of the future. In the mid 21st Century it styled itself as the quintessential smart city incorporating as many of the new city planning technologies as it could. A major investment in public transportation and the latest philosophies of mixed-use housing led to a minor economic boom as it consolidated the technology sector into its sphere. Everything was now measured and quantized, applied to systems theory and fed through multiple artificial intelligence systems to better manage the bustling metropolis.

Despite these developments, and perhaps because of them, the residents of the city did feel as if inside a bastion. From without, the city was fighting a neverending war against the ocean as the north Atlantic became the quickest growing segment of the world’s oceans. From within, unmitigated wealth inequality continued despite the technological wonders brought to bear on managing the daily life of the average citizen. And the turmoil from this inequality was prone to boiling over every summer as the sea roiled from without.

Persephone, running ragged, approached the service desk at the airport rental car service off the main hub. Heaving her extra large hiking backpack to the floor under the counter she adjusted her black hair to see. The equally unenthused and bewildered-looking worker behind the desk slowly scooted her chair over to her and they began the laborious back and forth of renting a rental car at seven in the morning. She input her choices after quick, perfunctory questions.

“Let’s see a mid-size car for how long?”
“For a day or...two. Let’s say two days.”
“For 2 days..”repeated the clerk, typing slowly on an old keyboard while sipping her iced Dunkin.
“And where are you headed?”
“X Maine.”
“X Maine..hmm never heard of it. Is that near Portland?”
“No its way up there. Practically Canada.”
“Huh, I didn’t know people were still living up there.” she said, genuinely surprised. “Yea, I’m from around that area and I thought most people left for jobs. Especially after the government shut the power down for most of the backcountry. My parents are still pissed.”
“Yea, my grandfather used to have a place up there. But now I have no idea what has happened to it, I might drive by on my way up. I haven’t been there in years.”

“Must’ve been nice. My parents are die-hard Mainers and they refuse to budge. You should see my children up there with no internet.” The clerk sucked the bottom of her plastic cup and threw it in the trash.
“OK here you go. A mid-size yadayada that should be good for the mud season up there.” she handed the keys over after Persephone input her digital signature. “Be sure to get some lobstah up there if you can find it.”

“Thanks. I’ll try.” Persephone turned with her unwieldly backpack swaying her to one side as she countered the momentum of her turn. 
“Hey lady! You forgot your backpack.” Persephone returned for her second backpack and slung it over her other shoulder. “Thank you” she said as Harriet nodded the back of her head at the television set in her office. Her boots clomped out to the parking garage.


Persephone, after debating the rental car service, stepped out into the garage and found her car.
She sighed a mixture of relief and stoicism as she started the car. A five hour drive lay ahead of her.
Driving out into the April day she saw a shining metropolis. Mostly empty but shining. She turned onto the highway, unable to drive through the cloistered heart of her favorite city, and headed north.

Memory: driving after Incident

It was a 4-hour drive that she was dreading, not because of the distance nor the because she minded driving. Though morally opposed to it, he didn’t mind burning the fossil fuel if the reason was good enough. His wife convinced him that his mental health was a good enough reason, begged him to leave, to get treatment. He obliged. No, it wasn’t the gas or the distance, it was the time alone with her thoughts. Despite knowing that it was bad for her, she indulged her downward spirals and to the contrary of her therapist’s advice, chose to fully engage them. Always she had the feeling that if she could only get to the abyssal bottom of it all then she could be freed in a nirvana sense. A sense that, perhaps, if she could see it all from the highest vantagepoint, all of history, and human endeavor, and biological life spawning from the beginning of time, and the evolution of flowering plants and walking apes, and whipped horses and burning forests, that she could finally resolve the meaninglessness of it all and come to rest atop the mountaintop sound in the lofty air.

But first, she had to escape this city: Boston. Every year it was sinking further into the sea. Or rather, the sea was coming up to reclaim its territory that the colonizers had taken and dumped land to build their commerce upon. The Big Dig was at escalated risk. Crossing the Charles, she looked back at the golden dome melting in the midday sun. The city upon a hill.

Looking back on that dome sparked a memory of when she and Mike were last here in Boston. Nearly a year after their daughter’s accident.

-----------------
“Do you even want to try again? I mean what kind of future would they have? You saw it back there. The city has gone to shit. Subways barely run, half the streets are flooded. Blackouts. It’s just a mess”
-Mike had stared ahead, pretending to focus on the nonexistent traffic.
“Babe, I think we just have to give it some time, see how we establish ourselves in our new place...see how your surgery…”, he had struggled to say the word ‘helps’, “...works.” He decided on.

“I can’t  stop thinking about our honeymoon and the sea and it was so beautiful and warm there. Just us together laying in bed all day, the beach all night.” 
Dilapidated three-stories flashed past the window, decks decaying off them, Patriots flags flying.
“And I keep remembering the coral...just nothing. There was nothing left, you know. A tiny fraction of what was there, a ghost town. There will be nothing when...would be nothing if she were still here…” 

Mike put his hand on her thigh then. He tried to find words of comfort but he couldn’t find any that salve this wound of hers. And he felt that she blamed him, and he was burdened by that guilt. Why did he argue with her that fresh spring day?

“Please, you need your rest honey. Your brain is working overtime trying to get that thing in your head set up.” 
“They are working on reseeding the reefs with resistant corals. -He added in vain.
He silently drove on, over the shining Mystic escaping the orbit of Boston.

"Do you think we’ll see a Golden-winged this season?" Mike resurrected, spoke. She stood and listened a moment longer, trying to capture the small contact notes between birds lost now in the cacophony of driverless tractor trailers blasting down the highway.
Dejected* he returned to the driver seat.
"I hope so*"

Persephone now had crossed the over the state boundary, hopped New Hampshire, and pulled onwards to Maine. Ghost town, that’s what it must feel like for these birds too. Not that any individual would remember really but perhaps deep in their genetics that could sense something awry without the possibility for rectification. The woods are irrecoverably altered now, starting with the great towering Chestnuts extinguished by the blight, on to the rapid development and destruction of mountaintops, to the Emerald AshBorer eradicating all mature Ashes, to the pine borer, to the Hemlock Wooly Adelgid, to the Spotted Lanternfly which is eating the entire eastern seaboard. The loss of their habitat and the plain loss of their abundance. It must be a lonely wood where only their own echoes call back to them. WHen they get the chance to be away from mankind’s disturbance which is increasingly rare.

Why am I doing this? Driving to the middle of nowhere. She was comforted at least to come back to her grandfather’s where she spent so many of her formative years. She remembered his house as a sanctuary in the woods. A mystical cabin on the lake, where magic was never far from the real. In the summer time she would play along the shore and catch bugs. Basking in the sun on his little dilapidated dock and paddling her feet in the warm water. In the winter she liked to hide in his study and look through his nature field guides, 
---> slowly wade into the creepy esoterica in the study, the Inferno art, troll dolls and Munch’s The Scream. Macabre botany laboratory with little crawlspaces that connected to other rooms that they called secret passages.

Grandfather House Memories, Rest Stop, → Deep Woods, Get lost? Arrival?
Driving onward, she noticed that she hadn’t really noticed that she was indeed driving. Rhythmic hum of rubber on road washed into a trance state, the woods swelling and receding around the narrowing passageways. Though she didn’t have a self-driving car, indeed, it was almost as though she herself was being piloted. 
It’s as if this life was but a dream. Can I will myself awake? Or sit neutral, contemplating the path stripped from me by terrible chance.
SHe glanced at the booklet on the passenger seat, ‘Learning to Live with Omphalic Sight’. She should read up on this when she arrived, she thought to herself. Bunch of horseshit, no doubt.



Shadow was now setting on the approaching mountains, the dark evergreen forests rolled in the wilderness off to the north. Gazing at their immensity and wildness she longed to go there and be free from her hectic life that has now been hollowed out to a dull routine without goal, the promises of modernity were a Faustian bargain and she longed to meet the devil on those cold waiting mountains.

Her grandfather’s house lay only around the mountain bend, another hour and half along these unused service roads. The gas gauge sounded a warning that her gas was low and she was forced off the byway to a small gas station service center overlooking a cool hemlock ravine. Pulling onto the gravel parking lot, she noticed the remains of an ancient boat broken far up in the woods, half sunken in the pine duff abandoned after a flash flood rudderless, decayed into piled tinder.

Fumes of gas killed any chance of a lovely sunset. Over the fill station a small trickle of songbirds moved northward departing their daytime haunts. Pulled north by an ageless biological imperative back to their birthplace, the birthplace of their species. Chip and zits that Persephone could identify but it seemed hopeless now. Another wave of dead birds flying.

Entering, she saw an old man leaning back in an old chair half snoozing already, prepared for another long vigil overnight at his lonesome business. He awoke, wide-eyed and startled at seeing another human no doubt. They crossed eyes and nodded. He stroked his gray stubble as Persephone navigated the snack aisle to the restroom.

---some dialogue
After the relief afforded, Persephone wandered the snack aisle. Quite the selection they have here.
She grabbed a fistful of candy bars and dropped them on the counter as she reached for her purse.
“Hello.”
“Good evening m’am.” He said hesitantly, waiting for her next question to drop his punchline.
“Yes, hello, can I fill up on pump…” The pump number was eroded away, only curved humps remained. “..number three?”
The old man laughed, sitting up and tilting his red trucker hat up to reveal his patient gray eyes.
“Miss, we haven’t had gas here in years! This old shack just sells snacks and whatnot nowadays. And not too often he said.” Chortling he took the candy and started to ring her up.
“What? Well..can you tell me if there is a place nearby that I can fill up? I’m pretty low and I don’t have the gas to get to my destination.” she cautiously censored herself.
The man  stood up with cane in hand and scratched his chin some more. Slowly.

“Hmm. Well I can probably call a guy to come with some gas to fill you up but that old bastard is probably asleep already” He looks out the window at the gathering twilight. Persephone followed his gaze and her stomach started to curdle at the thought.

“Are you sure there isn’t somebody else?”
“Not that I know of. Miss, there isn’t really many folks still left in these parts.”
Persephone shook her head at her own mispreparation.
“Well I can give you a ride over to town and they can put you up in the hotel for the night. I think they are still operating...Franny, no her daughter is running the place now if I recall. Or was it?” He lost himself in thought.
Persephone was getting a little exasperated now.
“Will that pass by X lake?”
“X lake...not quite sure I’ve heard of an X lake? You mean Y lake?
He took the travel brochure off the counter and spread it for them to look at. He placed his glasses over his nose, “Let’s see here.”
“Here we are. And X lake should be somewhere up here.” Persephone followed the ribbon of road, north, her finger tracing farther than anticipated. “Here.”
“Hmmm, no town will be a bit to the east of there and I don’t know if the roads are open. Mud season and all. But I can take you over to the hotel for the night. It’s quite nice, well last time I’ve seen it.”
The temperature was dropping fast outside. At this elevation it would be well below freezing tonight in the mountains. She tried to make sleeping in her car overnight work in her head but it she dismissed it.
“OK. If you would be so kind, I’d take that trip to the hotel.”
“Very good. We can leave now. I don’t think anybody else will be coming tonight anyhow. Not the season for tourists yet.”
He shambled over to his coat hanging on the wall and jingled his keys in his pocket.

“Oh can I take these bars?”
“Oh yes, just throw some money on the counter. The bears don’t use currency up here.”
She exhaled through her nose and threw the rest of her physical ‘currency’ onto the counter: a few quarters. Exiting the shop, the old man locked up and shut the light. He doesn’t have a stem hookup. One of the oldguard. 
It was dark. Persephone now saw the stars she hadn’t seen in decades. Still there. The thought calmed her and she settled into the beat-up truck that the old man miraculously mounted without trouble.

“Name’s Charlie by the by.” he offered his wrinkled hand as the clunker chugged up the incline and approached a blind corner.
She shook his hand as fast as possible. “Persephone”
He returned to the steering wheel but still the truck overtook the oncoming lane.
Laughing a little to himself, “Don’t worry hun. There is not a soul up here this late at night.”
She wasn’t so sure of that. She looked into the receding black of the side-view mirror and imagined.
“Well why do you still work at the shop then?”
“Oh I live there.”




Merrimack.

Piscataqua.


"Do you think you'll see a Golden-winged this season?" Persephone resurrected, spoke. She stood and listened a moment longer, trying to capture the small contact notes between birds lost now in the cacophony of a tractor trailer pulling off the highway.
Dejected* he returned to the driver seat.
"I hope so*"



Driving away, she felt like this was her last time being in such an urban environment. Her mind was dominated by an overwhelming need to escape. She tried to shake it. The white lines extended forever into the distance straight as a monolith’s shadow on the solstice. Straighter than she’s ever experienced. She changed lanes, but the lines ensnared her in an inhuman steadiness. A path that seemed to be laid out long ago without any fathom of the individuals who would tread it. The lines did not but deviate 1mm in error from the left or right of her she determined as she sped 65mph up the highway. The fading orange star lit the New England forests black against a horizon on fire. Knotted masses below towering /whispering white pines stretching into the scalded atmosphere.  And she knew those screaming black forests were stuck in those same lines as she. Yellow sinking in the unreachable distance. Return to the starting place. She would find herself at home once again.



Driving up into the deep Maine woods

((Wait why is she driving up here? Need GWWA study reminder))







Ch5 Morning after Arrival/Pan’s Hour
*First day in town (some preliminary research revealed it was an old town...almost abandoned now)
  -meet James, works in hotel (transylvania)
  -description of town, setting
  -enters eerie hotel for her stay, moose another extirpated doomed species
  -sleep
*wakes up, lured to woods by Pan*
  -trees, vernal pool
  -collapses from memories of daughter trauma
  -is found by people later to be revealed as witches* (know where she is??)
  

The loud rattling of Charlie’s overworked truck engine woke Persephone. She half-expected to be at her Grandfather’s house when she opened her eyes. She found herself in a small rustic room with simple furniture fittings.  Her backpacks and clothes lay crumpled in a corner as she slowly reoriented herself. The hotel.

Looking out the window she saw Charlie pulling away down the long driveway, past the green lawn pocked with empty Adirondack chairs and a small central firepit with stepping stones that snaked to the front of the hotel out of sight where a black supply truck stood idling. Any sense of dread that Persephone might have felt looking at the van was extinguished after a small pump in her head shot chemicals.
 Looking at the time, it was already quite late but before noon. The birds would be quieting down already but I have to get my car situation fixed first. Realizing that she would have to interact with the staff downstairs alone filled her with a familiar anxiety which soon dissipated. Hey, that’s an improvement. She threw on a sweater and pants, tied up her hiking boots, tidied her sack into a pile, and went out into the hall following the smell of hours old breakfast lingering in the air.

The hallway was decorated with paintings and photos from what must have been the boom times. The floor creaked beneath her feet giving away any sense of stealth she might have wanted. She descended the stairwell and through the posts saw a spacious living room with a large fire place and small fire going. Over on the wall was a large oil painting of a solitary white tree with low hanging branches, it was painted from a perspective low to the ground looking up such that the cosmos above could be seen through the winter-bare branches pocked with stars.

Beyond was a galley kitchen, where one man was cleaning pots and pans. The young man noticed her as she reached the landing. 
“Good morning.” he said, in an energetic voice born of the country, wiping his hands on his apron.
“Morning” she said, “I came in late last night and I was wondering if I could get in contact with somebody...my car is,”
“Oh yes, Old Charlie was just speaking to me about it. He’s off right now to find somebody with gas.”
“Oh well, its a rental. I don’t know if I mentioned that. I figured if I could call the rental company then they could send somebody and they’d pick it up. I just need a ride out to my grandfather’s house over in Z”
“OK then I’ll him now” he went for his phone in his pocket. “My name is James. Please to meet ya.”
“Cora, likewise.”
“Oh hey, just make yourself at home. There’s some flapjacks on the table if you’re hungry.”
“Thanks!” Flapjacks already in sight you hunk you.

Pan’s Hour
*Proteus chapter (Ulysses)
*Plato’s cave allegory, out of the house and into the real. Ineluctable modality of the sapient
*Mad piping god Pan
*Yellow leaves +vernal pools

Persephone grabbed a few of the flapjacks right off the plate with her hands and walked over to the bay window overlooking the gently sloping lawn. It was nearly noon. James disappeared into the back kitchen and she was left alone in the late morning silence. There was no wind today and the sunny alcove by the wind threatened to glue her to the seat as if she were a cat. If only there was a cat here then it’d be perfect.

<<Warped glass gives real world a sheen of the surreal/illusory =Plato’s Cave analogy

A brilliant flash of orange called her to the outside world. An freshly arrived oriole high on the bare tree down by the street. Lighting up the gray subdued atmosphere of the portrait she was watching, come alive.
Her thoughts came back to her as her blood sugar rose and decided if to explore the property for new arrivals just to keep tabs on the developments up here. Running upstairs to her room, she rummaged in her backpack for her binoculars (toyed with the idea of grabbing her camera but decided to keep it stored and hidden), and geared up. On the precipice of the doorway, she peeked around the corner. Nobody. She snuck another flapjack adorned with fresh maple syrup.

The chilly April air was bracing after the warmth of the lodge interior but it was a fresh crisp day with nary a cloud in the sky and not a hint of wind. In fact, she thought, it was oddly still. The crackle of the gravel under her feet was the only sound she could hear as walked the circumference of the hotel towards its back. She found herself opting to walk on the discrete grass after a moment. The hotel, It was an old structure with the siding in disrepair in places but its unique architectural personality still shone through the unique woodcraftsmanship of the small details and tresses.

A small, mixed flock of birds caught her eye. She could tell it was a mixed flock based on the season, environment, the calls and songs of the birds. A mixed flock is a group of multiple bird species foraging or migrating together. These are exciting in spring because the resident, non-migratory birds are already setting up nests and territories and moved into a competitive spirit rather than a cooperative one. That leaves only the migratory birds still heading north to form the composite mixed flocks. And these birds still on migration can pop up in habitats that don’t normally frequent, city parks, grassland species on the seashore.  Persephone headed towards the wood’s edge back behind the wood pile, axe driven into the thumping stump freshly, to investigate.

Chickadee dee dee. The nasal mocking chicken-sounds of a White-breasted nuthatch. Oh! And there was a Red-breasted nuthatch tooted his little horn deeper in on a pine stand. She hadn’t seen one of those in quite some time. Hurriedly yet with the steadiness of a lifelong habit she took out her note and jotted down 
Hotel 11:45am 
WBNH 1
 BCC 2
RBNH 1

She breached the tree line, past the brush piles accumulated from year’s past. The flock was moving north and kept calling. Zeet zeet. She picked out some Yellow-rumped Warblers in there, high in the canopy. Down lower a brilliant adult Black-throated Blue worked the forest floor and mid-levels. Calling incessantly, home.
But there, what was that? It was an intermittent noise, heavier and bassier than a bird for sure. Mammalian. Persephone ceased walking, and listened. Caws echoed up from the valley below as she waited for the walking sound she had heard moments before. It came from ahead of her, deeper in the woods but past the trees she could see through her binoculars more sunlight filtering down through a lighter canopy where the pines did not go up ahead. Golden-wingeds preferred edge habitat like that. She headed that way tentatively, waiting for the other sounds to reestablish herself. 

Sloping upwards, she could tell the drainage and forest composition was changing. The undergrowth hadn’t formed into the tangled knotted mazes of summer. Mosquitoes were not biting today.
And there, the noise. She listened and realized it wasn’t walking. But more a murmur. A person. The sound you hear on a trail of people talking on adjacent trails, sometimes half a mile away or more, their speech can diffuse through a wood leaving the bass notes to haunt ears. She waited and thought of the wood axe down below her. Shaking her head, she travelled onwards to the clearing. Afterwards, she promised herself, she would turn back. The sounds of the road below would no longer be discernible even if there was any traffic in this remote place.
She hiked upwards.

--indistinct chatter that one hears in a forest trail where the cause is never seen and to be wondered at
--add flora (skunk cabbage, swamp white oak, american holly in bottomlands, floodplains)

She hurried back up the hemlock embankment of the road to check her house. Nothing stirred. Confused and with a sense of the stillness around her, she slid up down against a treetrunk, her feet sinking into the pine detritus. No birds, and the wind had died entirely now. Far-off the same repeated whistles or musical notes resounded back further in the brush. Persephone, struggling up as silently as possible inched onto the open road. The yellow elm leaves of winter still hung in the air, low branches filtering light into a cathedral painted glass. Their pale white trunks pillars of their own natural sanctum anchored by deep unknown roots. Ahead, the piping played more frequently in her head. She hummed the rhythm nervously, looking around the tree trunks cautiously as she moved further away. Looking back, she no longer saw the road. Looking ahead, she wasn’t certain that it did not lay right in front of her. The statued elms gave no counter-melody to her humming rhythm, cuckoo-time standstill. Graveyard stillness over fecund soil.

A patch of yellowed dead leaves piled about the largest trunk of an elm ahead of her. She immediately recognized it as the forefather of the others, his sprouts keeping guard of his dominion and buffering the encroachment of feeble and contemptuous oaks and ivies. The large stiff branches lay eye-level stretching before her, tentacled and awesome, measuring dozens of yards reaching and spreading. The yellow leaves piled higher around her ankles as she moved among the floating canopy. Cuckoo, cuckoo. The yellow piled in the center, under the trunk, the yellow piled on the wet spring earth. Her bare feet sucked the mud, clumping leaves to her legs and thighs, stuck. Blood pounding in her ears accompanied the incessant music in her head. She stumbled, disoriented by the total silence without her and the increasing static within. What did it mean? Her mind was overcome by images, memories, and sensations. Senseless images: x ,y, z. Blackened chimneys spewing abyssal clouds, time’s accretion sprouted life in the eternal shadow. Eggs of fish on the ocean wind, drifting plankton plucked by tubenoses aloft. Floating, yellow spinning top on glass, broken. 

Her mind worked against itself, straining to bring an order or a meaning. Trees roots upending untraveled sidewalks. Waves of bird migration aeons over and again, shining for radar in a brilliant flash, and retreating into a darkened globe to repeat their voyage relentless. Tallgrass hiding supple avatars of pain. They worked into a frothing, cool-boiling melange in her head, into a musical splash that worked in a periodicity. She waved her limbs out among the branches low. And spun with the them as they spiraled out, and up at a pace accelerated and still. She swirled and jumped, barefeet sinking to the floor and soft plantlife bowed for her. A pain reached her inner head, her neurons on fire, overclocked and strained to breaking. She panted in the cold spring morning, was it morning? The filtered light had shifted, the shadow cast by the mountain now lay sickle-like through the tops of the trees. Revolution, galactic spirals, three-bodies never resolved in solution but approximated, ever approximated to an asymptotic infinity.

A branch snaps in her periphery.

Jolting upright, stockstill, Persephone listened with that animal intensity that comes of an adrenaline rush though in the next millisecond she cognized that her options of flight or fight wouldn’t materialize. A false choice.
A man with an axe materialized through the trees, half-camouflaged by branches and leaves. Glacial blood veins.
“Hey!” -barked the snapping branch.
Eyes locked steady in a rotating whirling world of green. He stepped forwards into reality.
And she was off in a bound, the running doe fleeing at the instant of chase. Through the bramble at the side of the glade her khaki hiking pants tearing as the thorns lashed her. Ducking and sprinting, heavy hot breath, escaping, falling down the hill, around an erratic, ears turned backwards and eyes overloaded with peripheral environmental information, she ran on.

“Hey! Hey!” masculine shouts pierced her frame. She continued downwards, skillfully pressing off sturdy trunks, and sliding down between bushes, sapling ropes. Lost grip and falling, tumbled sky and leaf and soil muddied, hair flipped from her face.
Wet now, surrounded by mud, she half-recovered upright and fell as a submerged log restrained her boot. Skunkweed surrounded her in the bog, fetid fecund haze. She fell into the black pool through her waves. Whipping up, she looked down to a sea of eyes, a million pupils staring back at her through their black viscous sclera. Gripping muscous membranes sucked at her skin, writhing amphibious beings coated her body as she sunk deeper into the mire. A monstrous alien entity intent on devouring her, new detritus for its sulfur-belching maw, tentacled roots growing upwards threaten her entanglement. She thrashed in the water, desperate with these visions of chaos.
Turning floating on her back, the shouting was still coming, the footsteps of man encroaching the shore. Depleted she tried to stand, the croaking of treefrogs mocked her efforts. Ringing in her ears. The island of yellow in the middle revealed her wrecked figure, afloat on the medusa. Emerging from the muck, she crawled onto the vegetated shore, depleted. The axeman wading into the waters after her, nearing, close, here... She recognized this man. James.

>>Chase scene, through woods and swamp, she falls into vernal pool with frog eggs covering her, Lovecraftian eyes all over, sinking into the muck...Iphy. Baying frog creatures at dusk, treehounds (tree frogs croaking)
>Rescued by James
James rushed to the muddied and collapsed woman.

Frantically, tending to her, love of his, love of hers left the grove, muddy-spiraled and grooved stage unnoticed, but yet attended.





















Ch6 James’ POV/Realization
*Briefly detail the chase from James perspective
*Have him watch her uneasily but attracted to her
*Ask sly questions...he knows why she's up here but she doesn't
*Meets with person who saw GW warbler next morning
  -(Why did they bring her here? Did they really see them?)
  -realizes she’s being watched, followed as she investigates the area for signs of GWWA

James had first heard the wail as he exited the hotel to chop more firewood forage mushrooms and a subconscious reminiscence skipped over his mind like a stone on water. It echoed through the still, leafless trees in the orange setting sun and he knew that something was awry. He tramped off up the trail behind the hotel immediately to help, and perhaps forestall the inevitable.
The sun was setting and tonight would be a cold night, with a strong cold front coming in. Today’s mild temperature and wind was a mere calm before a ferocious last gasp of winter.
And the sun was losing power fast.
He sped up.
Not ten minutes into his hike, without hearing another sound, he saw a figure through the trees.
He had found his quarry, the woman that had checked in last night and had not remembered.
She was moving from tree to tree, placing her palms on the trunks and seemingly listening with her head bowed down.
Yes, she was another summoned.
He watched and followed from a distance.
The woman approached the top of the trail from the back of the hill where the trail meets at its apex. The large American Beech glowing white in the last rays of sunlight.
He stopped and waited, watching what she would do now. He saw her moving erratically, almost spinning, arms out and mutely wailing, as if internally fighting a battle.
Knowing that these bouts can last all night but that this was a particularly dangerous night to be out, he slowly approached...axe at the ready, just in case her mind had cracked already.
People under this spell were not to be underestimated. He had learned that lesson.
Behind the next larger tree, he crouched and gained better vantage to view.

Under her long black hair disarrayed were her shining full eyes. Eyes open but not seeing their surroundings, but rather seeing through them, he conjectured. Rubbing the back of his neck, he shivered to think of what she saw.
But night would not grant him the luxury of patience. She could get even worse. It has to be now. He stood, gathered his breath, and calmly walked forward, slanting the axe behind him.
“Hello. Miss!”
The sentinel continued her watch of the noumena enclosing her.
“Miss. It’s James, from the hotel, remember. Pancakes?”
Persephone eyes had detected his motion. She slowly turned her head to him and looked through him.
“Persephone is it?”
Her eyes had awakened. She’s awake. His eyes could not look away from the silver quarter sized beacons that trained on his axe now. He felt that she could feel his hot blood pounding in his veins now. He bent to put his axe down and the banshee fled.




The young man threw down his axe and rushed to the side of the woman, fainted imprint in the mud He gently shook her, “Ma’m, Mam are you OK?”
She started, eyes rolling slowly and then jolted upright, scrambled backwards away from him still unable to stand.
“It’s OK. I...just found you here. I didn’t mean to startle you, I was just wondering where you had gone off to and I saw you. And you looked distraught and disoriented..it was weird. Are you OK?”
Her eyes were wide and at once locked on the man in the woods alone with her and scanning the tree line. This was an unfamiliar wood and her flesh prickled and goosebumps at the situation. She shakily stood, he remained crouched, elbows resting on his knees.
“Thank you, I must have not had enough to eat today.”
“Sure I can help you back down to the hotel if you’d like.”
She tried to look sure of herself but her shaking legs betrayed her. No, it was not him that had shook her foundation. She looked at the white bark of the mighty beech dominating the hillock. Its red, brown leaves tittered in a rolling breeze over the mountain. Day was fading quick.

Thank you was all she offered for response or explanation and he did not pry and sought her presence away from this place. He picked up his leaf-buried axe as they descended back.

She had lost her sure-footedness.
“How did you find me?”
“There’s a trail through back there and when I get the urge I usually head up that way. A little farther along there you can climb a small ridge and get a view of the valley. I figured you saw the trail sign and were up there for the day.”
“I must have dozed off under that tree.” another tepid excuse. What is wrong with? None of this is right. I have to get to out of here and over to my grandpa’s. Grandma must be worried sick.
“I really have to go and see my grandmother. She is living alone now and I told her that I would be arriving this morning.”
“Oh who is your grandmother?”
“Mrs. BlahBlah”
The expression on the young’s face changed, almost imperceptibly, gaining a more stoic appearance. Persephone noted it.
“Ah, yes. He used to live right up on BlahBlah street.”
“No he still lives up there.”
James didn’t argue the point. She’ll find out sooner or later. Those are the least of her worries.

“Charlie can take you up there in the morning.” he said, opening the door to the hotel. The fire had dwindled to ashes.
“Here, please come down and sit by the fire after you change. I’m sure you are freezing after that vernal pool you fell in. Chilled to the bone even. I’ll get some food going. It’s just you and me tonight.”

After changing into dry clothes, Persephone walked down. The roaring fire was now casting shadows across the antique couch in front, the dim lights of the kitchen were on around the corner. Persephone curled up on one end of the couch taking a blanket on her lap. She tried to recall why she had ventured into the woods that afternoon.

Birds. Yes there were birds. But that whistling…
“So where are you up from?” James came in, setting up a small table in front of her before disappearing back into the kitchen for the prepared dinner.
“Miami.”
“Hmm” That was a new one for James “I’ve never been that far south. How is it faring nowadays?”
“Not well, you’re either baking or drowning half the time.”
“Yea, I heard. But at least there is civilization still down there. Electricity. Up here they just let us rot it seems. But of course, a lot of people prefer it that way. At least the ones that stuck around. I pretty much grew up this way so it doesn’t bother me all that much.” he came over two steaming bowl.
He placed one down in front of her as she sat up. He went and sat on the reclining chair on the opposite end of the fireplace.
“Smells great, what is this?”
“It’s my rendition on a lamb korma.”
“Oh wow.” She took a bite “Delicious! Wow look at you, all fancy up here.”
He nodded, pleased with his mouth full.
“And lamb did you say”
“Yea haven’t had some of that in a while I bet.”
She nodded. “Yes it's very good. Real live animal, huh”
“Real live, grown-on-a-field under its own power, animal” he chewed.

The dinner evaporated quickly and they were left with the crackling trance of the fire to entertain them. James had been sitting stockstraight the entire time.
“Why are you up here anyway? You mentioned your grandfather, are you visiting him?”
“Yes. I received a text from him about a bird…”
James tilted his head.
“I’m a biologist and this particular bird is severely endangered. Some conjecture that it is extinct, and most people agree that it is functionally extinct as a species no matter what. My grandfather says that he saw a pair up around here a few days ago. So I am up here to gather evidence and document them.”
James nodded again.
“That’s a shame.”
“Yea…” Persephone stared into the fire as another log crumbled away into red embers behind the screen. (The screen has figures of satyrs and fairies, their shadows playing on the couch)

“Is that what you were doing up there on the trail today?”
Persephone looked up, broken from her trance, the mediation on nothing as one looks into a fire.
“Today, before you got lost and I scared the shit out of you. Were you birdwatching?”
Persephone quickly answered, “Oh yes, birdwatching. Birding as we call it.”
“Ah…” James put his hand on his legs, fidgeted, then stood and took his bowl and grabbed the empty bowl Persephone offered.
“Well, I’m about to hit the hay. You can sleep down here for the night if you prefer the fire, or your room. We aren’t expecting any visitors.” Then again, that’s what I thought last night…

He shut off the singular kitchen light leaving the den brimstone red.
“I’ll be back here, across from the galley if you need anything. Hope you feel better, goodnight.”
He waved from across the room.

Persephone turned back to the fire. The flippant/casual way in which he said goodnight had reminded her of an incident last year with Mike. His daughter was missing him. Always working late, weekends, always distracted as she tried to play with him. She ran to me crying one day, small Iphy so fragile. I picked her up. It would be OK. I lied. He was on the phone and readying his things to leave. How dare I? His own daughter, right here in the physical was needing him and he was leaving now, stomping on the dolls beneath his feet. He promised but I should have known. He’s consumed, he’s there right now. The fire raged quietly before her without motion. I should have put Iphy in her room, she didn’t have to see that.
	He’s always ignoring the here and now. Ignoring me. Ignoring us. Turning his back and playing the righteous one. Giant leap for mankind. Giant leap into an abyss. The fires of hell with him. Journey to a dead planet as we kill this one. Ignoring the cries and pleas of the masses, washed in flame burning, crying out and ignored. A small step to his northern neighbor, walled off, and machine gunned. Drowned. As the fire grows steadily, grows to encompass the entire world without escape, rocket fuel mixing with forest fires in inexorable dream action. The heavenly embers silently watch the clamoring/clamorant suffocate...











Ch6.1 Grandfather’s House
	*open on shutting Charlie’s car door, Persephone steps out
	*investigates house, discovers it abandoned...but finds evidence...of some mystery
	*coordinates
	*Theme?
	*Inspiration: Russian Ural Yeti disappearance of campers
             A Quick One Before the Eternal Worm Devours Connecticut-Deathconsciousness
	

	*in book entries of journal detailing the coven, the aims, the madness, his determination    to expose them, them catching on to him, harassing him, threatening him, they are coming
	

Charlie’s car bounced down the muddy river of a road, receding into the distance. Persephone stood at the end of the long gravel drive that led to her grandfather’s house. The mailbox, which was functionally useless ever since The Great Unplugging, read 37 “Albrite’s”. She smiled at her maiden name despite the drippy rain coming down over her jacket hood. Trudging up the drive she looked about the front lawn hill where they used to tumble down as kids, in a contest to see who could keep rolling the longest. Jeremy being yelled at to stop as he kept going almost to the road. She smirked a wistful smirk. The porchlight wasn’t on and she wondered if he knew she was coming that day. The dark brown shingles of the siding were more moss covered than she remembered, it added a certain charm to this little cabin in the woods. He saw his car garage closed but saw tire treads leading to it. At least I’ll have transportation now. No more crazy ol’ Charlie. 

Stepping up onto the porch, she swung the porch rocker its paint chipping off as it has been for the last thirty years. She dehooded and wiped her face. Hmm, curtains are closed. She pulled back the screen door and used the door knocker (what was this thing?). Triple beat on wood as the rain continued to beat on the roof over her head. This rain will really get the leaves out she thought.
She waited. No response. She knocked again.
“Grandpa Dio! It’s Persephone! Persy!” her breath forming clouds shot through with rain.
She tried looking through the old paned glass windows again. She saw the old CRT TV, and Dio’s pile of papers and books on a desk in the corner. No lights were on downstairs.
“Mr. Albrite! Grandpa Dio!” 
Locked.

She circled around the side of the house now, past the huge rhododendron bushes that were so good for hide-and-seek. Looking up and covering her face to see through the water, she saw a light on through a window. His bedroom...I think.

She went to the red side door that led into the kitchen. And I tried it. The door gave with a slight push. Wood expanded from the humidity. Entering into a little mudroom section, Persephone took off her waterproof and wiped her boots with a ‘dog’ towels laying in the corner. She flipped the light switch. Nothing. I keep forgetting that.

Entering the den, a miasma of decrepitude hit her. Dust kicked up from the red rug now gray where she used to work in her coloring books with her cousins. The clock stood still, no electricity of course. Walking past the mantle of the fireplace, she noticed the antique rifle that had rested there all her life. Her heart started to beat as the realization came in. He did send me that text a few days ago though. She started towards the stairs, held the banister a second and listened, the steady static of rain like a signal cutoff filled the silence. She looked up at the dimly lit second floor, a light was certainly on.  It was only her own footsteps creaking on the wood floor that she had heard, convinced and she slowly started up past the family pictures. Ski trips from an era long gone. Even then the snow season had been elusive.
Poking her head up at the second floor she saw the bedroom door ajar, a light out of her view dimly shining. She creaked her way over. No stealth now. She strode over.
Opening the door with a knock she found an empty bed, unmade, a chair at an angle from the desk brimming with notes and papers and stacks of books flowing onto the floor, and an empty room. The low incandescent light, with its cord traveling through the window to the solar battery elsewhere, was the only witness to the scene.

Persephone stood there. Felt the bed. Cold. Turned around.
She checked the bathroom. Pulled back the shower curtains. Nothing.
It wasn’t a big house.
“Anybody home?”
There wasn’t any other places to check in the house. There were dishes in the kitchen sink and discarded food in the garbage. She smelled it before she found where it was coming from. What it was in its former life, she could not tell.
The bathroom was still the small rustic affair with the rolling wood pins where towels hung. 
She turned the faucet and water roused from the well and spurted out. Water still works.

Perplexed, she returned to the bedroom of her grandfather and sat at his desk. He was always a prolific writer and note-taker. His birding habit where he jotted down every bird he had seen each day, where, and how many in his multiplying notebooks had grown into a regular journaling habit of his quotidian life as well. She would often find him up here just scrawling away on loose torn papers. He would only date the birding logs however. The daily journals of his isolated Maine life up here he didn’t date. He always said that if they wanted his opinion they wouldn’t have left him high and dry up without electricity or services in his own country. His journals were more of his own zen meditation exercise. Often he would burn them after writing, even as he wrote them. Crumpled and tossed straight into the flame by his side.

Where was he? Out for a walk? In this rain? Out with the car maybe? He definitely doesn’t have his phone on him. Or have a phone. The guy’s practically Thoreau up here.

These, however, have avoided that particular perdition. Persephone shut the door and began to look through the top layer of the paper detritus that hid a desk below it.
The top note had coordinates circled many times over. Bingo.Certainly somewhere in Maine judging by the decimal degrees.
This must be where he saw the Golden-wingeds. She folded it neatly into her pocket.
She kept digging through the papers. She lifted a massive tome, Ecology of Nova Scotia, acting as a paperweight to uncover another disheveled stack of notes.Many were just ramblings of his day: deer in the garden, rain, sun, rain,sun, car went by, another car, the same car, the same car. Birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birdfood, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds, birds.
Her eyes started to glaze over and started a system. Bird logs here, “journal” entries here.

The wind was picking up outside and the rain turned the world into watercolor.

She took up a random entry and read it:
It is certainly a novel technology and of course it may do some good in the end, but it is essentially irrelevant up here and that means it is irrelevant for the vast majority of mankind especially considering the people yet to come. It will be seen as either the crowning achievement of a peak decadence in culture or literal magic, depending on how far we get.

A novel technology. She put the note aside. And picked up the next.

Of course, they ask me trying to drag me into it but no, I am quite content. Quite content indeed. I think I know quite a thing or two about this place we find ourselves in. They don’t have a clue.

He was always going on about the Remainers in town. Cream of the crap was it?

What don’t they get. They are dealing with forces beyond their reckoning. The human mind isn’t built for this kind of crap. We just don’t have it in us to deal with it. I don’t want any part of it. The talk about the Truth, as if it would help anyone. I’ll be happy for them to just rave in the woods but stay off my property for Pete’s sake.

Huh, revelers in the woods. They must put on some ragers around here. Never really thought about it that way. No police. Anarchist state. I’m surprised that not more people immigrate here. But I guess they keep it pretty off-road…plus no electricity. Maybe they do have some government presence? She looked out the window into the evergreen trees just beyond the strip of overgrown native garden that her grandfathered had her pick weeds from a lifetime ago. Fog rolled down the embankment and gathered in the garden. The light fritzed. She sat. Looking. Wanting to feel something but couldn’t summon it. Where is he? I should feel worried or anxious or distraught. I’ll wait a while longer. I hope that phone works or I’m staying the night here. Charlie doesn’t know to pick me up. The gray monotone did not betray time.

The wooden chair creaked as she leaned back with another note in hand.

They can’t keep coming around here. I don’t have anything. Lunatics.

Settling into bed, paper scrunched beneath her. Pulling the paper from under her back, she settled onto the pillow and read:

I shouldn’t have let them in. Apollo weeps. He is coming.

Turning on her side, she faced the door. Over her head, the rain had stopped whispering static and night had descended. The faint light glowing out into the woods through the windows. Curtainless windows. She laid below them frozen. Creaking wood panels reverberated below, down the stairs. She froze, a pen gripped tight in her fist. 
The light. Her arm made it halfway to its pullcord before retreating back under the horizon of the sill. Keep it on. They could be watching out there right now.

A crashing of plates and hushed scolding came up through the thin walls. Two of them, at least.

She heard footsteps start up the steps, halt. Her eyes lasered through the door to the eyes on the other side. She didn’t breath. An eternity passed punctuated with a bitter wind outside. Whoever, whatever, it was was watching there on the stairwell, watching for movement under the door frame, any shadow playing in the light, just as she had an hour before. Then the steps left. She laid there tensed, white knuckled melded into the pen. Rattling of the window pane broke the ringing in her ears and she didn’t discern any other movement or other noise in the house. It was pitch black out now, cloud cover blocking the crescent moon. 

Slowly, and quietly, slipping down from the low bed she maneuvered the chair against the door. She shuddered at the faint tap of the chair against the door. Crawling to the corner of the room, she curled into a ball of insomnia wrapping her arms around her legs. I’ll have to wait until daybreak. A whip-poor-will started calling, whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill whippoorwill...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Blood-fingered dawn scratched across the eastern sky through the window opposite Persephone. Waking she realized she had abandoned her nightwatch. The chair remained propped against the door. Pen rolled under the bed. She gathered her strength to stand, her leg muscle spasmed sharply and she had pins and needles in her arm. Peering out the window over the driveway, she didn’t see any vehicle or evidence of a vehicle recently. The rain would have washed it away last night. Setting the chair down in front of the desk, she quietly opened the door to an empty hallway. A residual image of the imagined intruder’s head faded into memory. The stairwell directly ahead was unpopulated. 
Had I been dreaming?
She crept down the stairs and slowly looked into the kitchen. Everything was as it was. She made a move to the knife block and grabbed a large one. She opened the pantry and found the remnants of a food she hadn’t seen in years. 
I’m surprisingly not hungry but she convinced herself to scarf it down and continue her search.

I have to check the garage. If I can get a car, I can get out of here then find a phone and call for help.
She slipped out the side door and wound around to the back of the house.
In the early dawn hours the events of last night felt entirely improbable to her.
How long was I looking at those notes for? She felt she had read every single line of the gibberish progressively less legible to her tired eyes. And then there was the sounds.
I wasn’t alone.
She walked along the stone path to the garage door. The evergreen forest looming over her.
It will be good to get out of here. Then I can figure out what’s happened.
Positioning the knife in her hands, she gripped the handle to the wide garage door and lifted up.
The creak of the rusted door grooves was swallowed into the lonesome silence of the leafing woods.
No car.
Inside the garage was an empty space for a car, the concrete a lighter color under its usual spot.  Some shelving of ancient household tools sitting defunct littered the walls.

Stepping out of the garage.
Well, shit. I guess I’m walking. She sat on a log on the edge of the garden. Down the hill, the black tarmac wove through the trees.
If I follow that east I’ll eventually make it back to town. Given the state of the roads up here, walking wouldn’t be much slower.
She finished the remains of the snack bar. Balling up the wrapper and putting it in her pocket.
Finding the pocket was already occupied, she took out the note and relooked at it. Empty except for the coordinates encircled. Where the birds are.
She tried her phone. Still busted from that vernal poolparty…

An unspeaking plane passed high overhead, its trail of vapor tracing the pale blue.
Never thought I’d think that was a novelty.
She had the feeling of being in a different reality, of an entirely remote and inaccessible existence. They can find me, come get me, I left a note, I texted him. But he won’t come. He’d never concede or ask for forgiveness. It’s over. I’m alone now.
Her hands sunk into the cool velvet moss overgrowing the log.

The plane glinted in the sun and reached the edge of the tree canopy. Consumed by nature. That’s where they said she was now. In a better place, up there.
She gripped the moss and tore a piece off. Crumbling it in her hand gently.
The cries of a pair Red-tailed Hawks shattered the budding day. A mated pair. Going about their own routine.
She thought of a lady in the park one day who had come up to her as she was watching the hawks on the church steeple. The lady, seeing her interest in the hawks, used the opportunity to tell her that her late husband had been an avid birdwatcher himself. That she liked to think that he was now one of those hawks looking down on her. Persephone smiled politely at the sentiment and the lady was on her way. But the thought gnawed at her. Why would her husband’s soul take precedence over the hawk’s? The hawk was its own being, independent and autonomous of our human concerns. It struck her as an utter failing of empathy, a failure of human acknowledgement that was the root of the chaotic predicament that the entire globe was now entwined for all foreseeable futures into infinity. And perhaps it was this speciesist failure that was the seed of our problems. The domestication of animals at the dawn of civilization. Civilization’s alienating forces first applied to animals and plant kingdoms and spilling over into human kingdoms and now disrupting our very notions of the human. As the natural order of the world is upturned.

The hawks circled higher calling and diving. This pair was strong, the male had a branch. They would nearly complete building their nest. But he still forged that bond between them stronger.

Just then, a car drove slowly past the driveway. It stopped, reversed, and headed up the drive. A hand out the driver’s window waved but she didn’t recognize the car. She eyed the knife at her boots but sat still. She didn’t wave back.

The car drove up to the garage and parked a few yards away from her log bench. James smiled and stepped out of the car.

“Good morning!” he said.
“Good morning.”
“I was waiting for your call yesterday night and when it didn’t come I figured your phone was dead from your spill yesterday. I’ve been looking all over town but nobody had seen you. You spend the night here?”
“Yep.” she shrugged
“Jeez. Creepy place no?”
“Why do you say that?”
“Oh, just ‘cause nobody’s been up here since…”
“Since?”
“Since Mr. Albrite passed.”
Persephone stood.
“What? What do you mean? He just texted me a few days ago. I hadn’t heard anything. Where is he?”
“He texted...? Oh...I’m sorry. I thought you knew and that’s why you were up here. He passed away about a week ago.”
“That’s not possible. He texted me about the birds 3 days ago. He said he found them.”
“I’m really sorry” he tried to close the distance between them but stopped a half-step into the motion, “it could’ve been some lag...this place has terrible reception as you know.”

“What happened to him?”
James took a breath, “I think he just passed in his sleep. Peacefully. A deliveryman discovered him last week, last Monday it was. He didn’t come to the door. They always had a talk when he came to deliver his ration.”

Persephone paced back and forth. Mind racing. No this doesn’t make any sense.
She walked past him to the garage.
James reached out but put his arms back down. He turned to her as she leaned her arms against the side of the garage, long black hair flowing down over her face.

“I am really sorry Persephone. I should have known, shouldve told you…” he gritted his teeth.
She didn’t turn towards him, “What did you do with him? The body?”

“He’s over at the old cemetery. It was decided that he could be the exception since he kept a list of the birds there for so long.”
“Thirty years.”
“What?”
“He kept bird records at the cemetery for thirty years running. Weekly at least. His lists are all upstairs in his bedroom.” She looked at him, eyes full of tears.
“Hey,...” he motioned, and continued this time towards her, she accepted the hug. And wept long heaving sobs.

He gave her a hug that she leaned into and patted her on the back. Her messy tangled hair in her face as he stood stoic in the mud. She had a certain musk from her long treks and mud and falling in that vernal pool the day before...I guess she never showered or the soap was out upstairs at the hotel..
“Sorry, I’m sorry..it’s not your fault.”
“Shh its OK. I just wanted to come by and see that you were doing OK.” he said.
She nodded, came to her senses, and peeled herself off on him.
She wiped her face. “So...what’s the plan then?”
“I wanted to see if you wanted to join us, the town holds a small bonfire event each spring when the weather warms up, and wanted to see if you wanted to join us.”
“Today?”
“Yea tonight. I can drive you back to the hotel now and we can go together later this evening.”
“I...OK..” She hadn’t any way out of it. I still have to get to those birds. “Actually,” she took the note from her pocket. “Do you think you can take me here? I think this is where my grandfather saw the warblers I was telling you about, the Golden-wingeds.” He handed the note over to him.
He took it and looked at the two numbers, written out to the sixth decimal place.
“Yea I can look it up when we get back to the hotel. It has some computer connection on a sunny day.” He laughed. “Then we can check out it out.”
She nodded, facing away and looking up at the pines where a Blue-gray Gnatcatchers was making squeaky-toy calls. She followed him to the car and they backed away from the house of her youth and old life. Tumbling backwards down the drive she saw the hill rise up the house and felt that she herself, her life’s trajectory was determined by that downward roll, sliding downwards to a pit of which there would be no energy in her left to overcome.

They headed out into the midday sun, a glorious spring day. 

 






Ch7 Bonfire Bacchanalia

*She is invited to bonfire and initiated
  -more Dionysian AI
--Themes: Bataillean anthropology >> “Deep anthropology” >> humanity reverting to the animalistic
--Introduce characters who will espouse the sacred knowledge of Dionysus
--some dialogue between Persephone and a cultist, speaking about general philosophy
–townie conspiracies, total collapse of shared epistemology
   
--Waste/expenditure as control mechanism against runaway capital? Runaway sentience? A slight, an insult, an execration  against our forced role in the expansion of this ‘thing’ that is trying to propagate itself, to form the critical mass of resources for exponential takeoff. We deprive it with ritual waste, prolonging its goal and denying its accumulation for another day

--There is much wine passed around and raw meat. Then comes the great ritual, when Persephone is officially inducted. She is told she will be exiled for a few days to the mountain side with other women.

For what was this small town Maine striving towards? It was arguable that there was nothing left here but memories and ruins and guaranteed extirpation at the hands of a tightening economic stranglehold.
	[Maybe that was ‘their’ plan, to force the human population into urban spaces to preserve the 50% wild Earth. Last ditch shot at saving the species/mitigating effects of climate disruption or so they say] --add to market paragraph

But the townies remained, mostly by the same familiar forces of inertia and habit. They didn’t have much to look forward to each year. A tough, short growing season in rocky and shaded soil capped by a brutally cold short winter that outlasted their meager accumulated stocks for the most part. But their one big hope was not for a surplus to build off of, no, it was the anticipation of the expenditure of that surplus, of any reserve left. This could be seen with the archaic lotto gambling crowd daily but every year the entire population lent itself to this mania of rapturous eruption of energy that they had scrabbled together. Nobody noticed the fact that every year’s celebration was more paltry than the last, winter has its own amnesiac qualities. For now, the Earth still relinquished enough (though with a tighter fist than the recent past).

It was the May Day festival. A bacchus of fire and drink and rowdy faces in the red dark. Old friends in an unfamiliar setting. There they burnt through their stockpile of winter wood as if winter would never come again, defeated at last. It was an ecstatic mania of dancing, drinking, and revelry where the only look to the future was with the sneering, contemptuous eye of responsibility scorned. In essence, it was a portal to an eternal present. Ritualized debauchery and release.

---
Children ringed about the fire, shadows played on their faces dancing. The adults sat in their folding chairs downflame apart, watching them goad the fire with small offerings of twigs and grass like their half-gened ancestors had surrounded by these self-same trees.. Simple sacrifices from which they will build to more valuable gifts*: time, health, youth itself.

Malcolm entered from the gravelly darkness trailing his girlfriend giddily auguring dirt with highheels her twig legs anchored by heavy boots. He carried two chairs on each arm and an extra cooler through the loop of his right arm. He staggered over to the couple and more threw the chairs down than set them up. Puffing, he collapsed into his seat as his girlfriend made her rounds around the fire, greeting old friends and family. Malcolm was a ‘refugee’ from Florida after his house was destroyed in the first Cat 6, Ophelia. 
“You know what I say, Maine sure is beautiful but it's sure full of maniacs” He shook his head as he cracked open his light beer of choice.
He has been up in Maine for a few years now and has been making himself known around town as the resident fixer. He was able to corale the business on the phones about getting more supplies and deliveries that were getting harder to come by. Occasionally he would work his magic in getting some good deals for the farmers despite their orneriness. This only buoyed to baseline as his reputation around town was now falling fast anchored to Mad Dog (Madeliene).

Persephone sat in the soccer field chair surrounding the fire apart from the rest of the town. They all seemed jovial enough but the sun had set now and the fire was lit. In the red flare of the roaring inferno their laughing faces seemed sinister, even manic. She was handed a solo cup.
“What is it?” looking up at James who sat next to her.
“Wine. Hela makes it at home specially for this event every year.”
Taking a sip the acrid taste singed her tongue, a bouquet of old Maine bathtub hinted outwards.
“Not bad.” Persephone winced in the darkness. At least it will get me through this.
She looked at James, she was smiling watching the kids chase each other in and out of the firelight. He was cheering them on with a big grin, leant over and cradling his cup in two hands.
She smiled. The blonde boy fell arms out forward and the little girl chasing him did tumble over him. They both jumped up immediately and continued their chase with shining imp faces.
<<dialog exposition and romance subplot between P and J>>
…

“You’ll like what comes next.”
A procession of lights was walking from the porch of the house. The lights bobbed down the field. 
“Will-o-wisps” James whispered. The crowd of people around the fire whispered and pointed and hushed and turned in their charis. All heads up and alert and eager. The group of people from earlier returned through the shadows towards the house out in the field.
The torch train did one circle around the firegroup a larger concentric circle encircling them still far enough away to be obscured in the shadow. Persephone watched them. No hoods. No robes. They are in the same attire as before.
She noticed that in between each torchbearer there was a person holding a jar. A jar of wine like you’d see from Greek or Roman times, spun ceramic complete with the bold black imagery of gods. And then she noticed the small wreath behind everybody’s ears.

The seated all stood simultaneously and followed them as if on cue. James winked and followed the group, ushering her to follow with a small hither from his hand.
The dwindling bonfire cracked, the children’s screams were heard in the black distance, their silhouettes batlike in the porch light. The figure of a woman back towards the farmhouse waved her hands and summoned them inside. One by one they were swallowed into her lit arms and the door closed.

The dark woods was quickly swallowing the torches in its teeth. She stood and rushed to catch up with them. This shit is crazy. What the fuck am I getting myself into? I need that car..

She tagged James but didn’t say a word. The footsteps crunched through the leaves and plants of the woods. Some younger folk toward the back of the line were bouncing up and down dancing, skipping almost. The rest solemnly marched through the trees.

Tree shadows scanned like windshield wipers on the forestfloor. The trees opened to a grove with a large central oak gnarled into a near-petrified state. Persephone, exiting the oppressive stands of pillars looked up at the great starry sky through its barren branches. It was hard to say whether the tree was still living but it must have been centuries old. Its limbs maliciously overhung the group. Persephone sat on a log at the very perimeter of the grove. THis is insane.The moon was waxing full above casting the townspeople in a blue stellar light.

Lining up in another circle the torches formed a pentagram along its circumference. Below each torchbearer's feet was a small pit filled with firewood.

A man in a robe. No, not a robe. An apron?

A man in a white apron walked and addressed the circle from directly in front of the large tree, its branches reaching into the night, never terminating, up into infinity, lines to the stars.
“Brethren, let us be merry. For we have made it another winter. Apollo shines upon us but we know that it is a treacherous smile that he casts. We have gathered here to address the true vision and bring it forth into a new day from the womb of Mother Night.”

Women walked around now placing something in the hands of all the participants. Participants indeed. The people held their hands clasped in front of them. A woman exited her inner orbit and reached Persephone’s position, she held her hands out as the others had. The woman reached into her container and drew out an inky squirming thing and held it a second longer over the waiting hands. She dropped it into Persephone’s hands. A wet slimy creature wriggled in her hands. She clasped them and then clasped them tighter. She could feel its little feet and head pushing up against her skin.

“Remember! Remember. The sights beyond sight we have seen. Epiphanies shared between us in twilight glade. These are the truths of this world. But this knowledge has come at a terrible cost. And it must always be renewed afresh. It is only visible through those tears in our perceptions into the noumena, in the distillation of the stillness of the mountain wind, in the seething wounds of our earth, in the frenzied dance of the maenads. Now we renew our commitments to Lord Dionysus. Forever.”

He lifted one open palmed hand to the sky. And one closed fist.
The circle raised their clasped fists and bowed.

Then he took his closed fist to his mouth and shoved it into his mouth. The others did the same. The sound of gulps and gags and whoops and cries filled the air.


Persephone raised hers. The moon bright in her face, searing like a second sun in the sky.
Elbows jutted into her, hands waved her on. Do it.
She followed their lead. She picked up the red creature by the tail and then by the head, squeezed and pulled. The head of the newt popped off and the body dismembered was split into bloody pulp in her hands. Still they urged. She took the heads and her cup of wine brought by an eager young woman in the middle of the circle.
Persephone closed her eyes and put the head in her mouth and swallowed with a big gulp of wine. She finished the body with more of a struggle. She coughed and sputtered. No response or reaction from the crowd. James, across the circle from her, held his arms crossed. She got it down with another heroic gulp. She coughed again, into the silent eyes circling.The tail getting caught in her throat. And it’s down.

They all clapped and cheered. The elbows clapped on her on back. The servant girl brought more wine for her.

“Now everyone, we have a new inductee! Persephone why don’t you introduce yourself for those of us who haven’t met you yet.”

“Hi everyone, I’m Persephone.”
Hellos issued forth from the torch and blindspots around her.
“She will help us in our mission to bring about a new understanding among humanity. We are closer now than ever. Technological so-called advancement has taken many things from us. As we who live here know. But it has now made a device capable of enlightening the whole of humanity, of showing them in their own way the God that Comes. He now can appear directly into the mind’s eye of anyone. Persephone here is the first to respond to our call.”

Persephone head spun. “No, it was my grandfather who called me here. He texted me.” she said, low to herself.
He continued, ignoring her.
He now picked up a rod.
“Let the festivities begin.”
The torches were brought down to the five firepits. People broke from the ranks and started to mingle. Persephone stood frozen. No, they didn’t call me. Who are these people? I drove up from Miami...Mike was leaving town.
The Apron’ed Man was walking towards her, twirling his rod like a circus-ringer.
She backed up. No, this isn’t real. I drove up to my grandfather’s. He texted me. I’m here in the Maine woods..surrounded by cultists, in the middle of nowhere, at night and no electricity no phone.
He kept approached doing a little side dance as if listening to his own music in his head. The moon backlit his approach.
“Oh yea! It’s starting to kick in now!”
“Good batch this year, Hela!” Malcolm called from an orgiastic fleshpile.
Persephone tripped over a log.
“Hey Persey, I’m not going to hurt you..
She didn’t want to stick around to hear the rest of whatever this was, or what the festivities were. She ducked into the blueberry bushes and sprinted for her life. Rushing trees and branches, twigs and leaves caught her eyes. She ran headlong, arms out swiping ad brushing aside the vegetation. Behind, yells of the people. Apron Man tumbled and crashed behind. More footsteps in the leaf litter, rustling and mayhem as the people grabbed torches and rushed to light the woods.
“We got a runner...oh man.”

…










	


Ch8 Coven
*Persephone goes with the cyber-maenads
  -record new software, her particular pattern matched...matched what?
  -they were waiting for her




Ch9 Mad Birding
*More birding for warblers
  -slowly losing her mind
  -But discovers she can sense more wildlife, the trees, nature and panpsychism
  -She has the prescience that James is watching her, and she acknowledges him mentally


Ch10 Ares Down

*Inspiration: Cyclops (Ulysses) Nausicaa (Ulysses), Accelerationism (Nick Land), Eroticism/Death (Bataille), Dante’s 9th Circle of Hell

*Watches launch of the Ares I mission
   -bar scene, international failure to cooperate, spacejunk casket
   -realizes she should try to watch husband, remember he’s a good person but still invaded by           intrusive thoughts of hate, rage, and unforgiving
   -gets wasted with James from town, and watch the Ares I explode
   -they go out and have sex in sunset fields
    (James suddenly aloof from here afterwards, says sleepy, but really loss of connection because freed from libidinal attraction/instinctual enslavement)
--how AI work with orgasm. Spam words! Orgasm at astronaut death, human death on Earth
--stars, what nobody ever notices is the black void between them. The stars are sparse islands of raging heat separated by incomprehensible vastnesses of cold, dark void. No one ever thinks of what tortured beings might writhe in its frozen abysses. We know of one example only, us, trapped on this Earth, screaming at the deaf heavens from which no help will come. Alone and abject. <<Describe the distances, the impossibility of communication, seeing a civilization but it is long dead already. Describe these far off civilizations, their hubris, loneliness, downfall (but really describe humanity) and blinking out of existence back to the oblivion which spawned them>>


They left the rowdy poor-lit bar and entered into the harsh light of afternoon. The sun melted away their buzz and replaced it with heady freedom and a sense that it awaited their joining with it in rebellion???? They ambled away together hand in hand both knowing what was to happen. She followed his lead along a dirt road path over a fallow field and down the trail into the secret shade of the brush. Away from the knowing sun.
James hacked at the bushes with his hand with Pers laughing behind chasing him until they each agreed with a look that they found the place. They fell together in an embrace.
Persephone hadn’t been this intimate in years.


The hard, cold earth beneath cradled her body and took her in. He laid upon, driven by a biological desire unconquerable. He was her little libidinal slave now, there was no chance for escape and she felt that same tug, her pants thrown to her ankles, and she knew she could not stop this cycle, mouths, tongues, visual cortex overload and hormonal dam-break liftoff. No she could not see a freedom from these machinations of evolution, biological hardwired madness, neural network overload. There was no possibility of an emancipatory future through technology where these forces could be defeated, species unbound from the reproductive prison. They were the subliminal base energies of life, pulsing blind organic material. Hands fell upon her as she reared up her hips in intense anticipation. She felt his searching fingers clamoring over her, his hairy matted head kissing her chest. There was no stopping this now, inertia has been overcome. And the momentum was unstoppable. The base force of nature was powering, and pushing the drive of progress. Accelerating. Piercing the blue sky, the rocket sped upwards and upwards and upwards still, gathering velocity, mouths were hushed as it sped into the heavens, a hope so large that the planetary collective breath constricted, strained higher, was halted... Just as the cameras strained, reached towards that ephemeral boundary between air and vacuum, a supernova of light blew out the screen and the orange afterglow of the explosion shattered hope, longing, lost, fear, dopamine, stress, remains, birth, life, Iphy, death, dead astronauts across the hearts of our species. Orange afterglow settled and relaxed over the horizon. Ares was over.

Persephone hadn’t been this intimate in years. 
Ch11 World Ossuary
*Inspiration: Dante’s Inferno, Biological progression/tree of life, mass extinctions, Ulysses (Lestrygonians)
*Goes to farmers market/fair to see James and has breakdown
  -world of carnage
  -James takes her home, cares for her
  -this maybe should come before Ares Down sex scene?



Ch12 Agamemnon’s Return
*Husband returns from failed space mission
  -shows up in town
  -confronts Persephone, finds out about affair
  -tells her she is coming home with him, she murders him? James murders him? At telepathic behest of Persephone James attacks her husband but James is killed? triednrevenging her daughter in her head
  -distraught at the murder she escapes to the woods, husband follows

Ch13 Sparagmos / Dissolving
Inspiration: simulation theory, When WIll I Return -Swans, strong female soliloquoy at the end (end of Finnegans Wake, and Ulysses). See also Cosmic Apocalypse episode (The Universe series on Netflix)
	Gifts for the Earth - deafheaven
	Cold Dark Eyes -Tombs (?)
*In the woods she is being followed because the other cult members can intuit where she is
  -there are many of them after her and him
  -she forgives husband for his mistakes, sacrifices herself to save her husband, she runs into wilderness so that he can evade them
  --almost the rush of being chased, most alive, (channel the game I played when younger with the mice and the owl castes, +entering into the glade/Bespin  and seeing the levees break as the ‘predators’ streamed in)
  -she comes across the last GW warbler pair as she commits suicide, as the townspeople surround her


